
[Transcriber's note: Original spelling variations have not been
standardized. Characters with macrons have been marked in brackets with
an equal sign, as [=e] for a letter e with a macron on top. Underscores
have been used to indicate _italic_ fonts. A list of volumes and pages
in "Notes and Queries" has been added at the end.]




NOTES AND QUERIES:

A MEDIUM OF INTER-COMMUNICATION

FOR

LITERARY MEN, ARTISTS, ANTIQUARIES, GENEALOGISTS, ETC.

"When found, make a note of."--CAPTAIN CUTTLE.

VOL. V.--No. 123. SATURDAY, MARCH 6. 1852.

Price Fourpence. Stamped Edition, 5_d._




CONTENTS.

                                                                Page


      NOTES:--

      South Sea Playing Cards, by John Sudlow                    217

      Birthplace of the Empress Josephine, by Henry H. Breen     220

      Notes on Homer, No. III., by Kenneth R. H. Mackenzie       221

      Folk Lore:--Ancient Custom on Interment--Pure
      Rain Water--Cure for Hooping Cough                         223

      Sainted Kings Incorruptible                                223

      Minor Notes:--Rev. A. Butler--Birthplace of Bishop
      Hoadley--Humboldt's "Cosmos," and Nares' "Attempt"--Gough,
      the Irish Portion of his Camden:
      Ledwich--Chronogram--Junius and the Quarterly
      Review again                                               224

      QUERIES:--

      Seven Queries                                              225

      Plague Stones                                              226

      Minor Queries:--The Cross on Counsels' Briefs--Sir
      James Hayes, of Bedgebury, Kent--Authorship of the
      Song "Oh Nanny," &c.--Hexameter Poem on English
      Counties--Wild Oats, Origin of the Phrase--The Dr. Richard
      Mortons--General Lambert--Cross-legged Effigies and Collars
      of SS.--The Crooked Billet--Collins the Poet, and his Ode
      on the Music of the Grecian Theatre--Bishop Kidder's
      Autobiography--Shrine of Edward the Confessor--"Wise
      above that which is written"--"Hoffman," a Tragedy by
      Chettle--Inverted Commas--Quotations Wanted--Deacons,
      a Phrase used by Foxe--The Count de Vordac                 226

      MINOR QUERIES ANSWERED:--Hoare's Charity--Dr.
      Sacheverell's "Sermon at Derby"--Lucas Lossius--The
      "Athenian Oracle"                                          229

      REPLIES:--

      French Revolutions foretold                                231

      Grimesdyke                                                 231

      Poet referred to by Bacon, by S. W. Singer                 232

      Johnson's House, Bolt Court                                232

      Cooper's Miniature of Cromwell, by Major-General
      Fox                                                        234

      The Queen of the Isle of Man                               234

      Replies to Minor Queries:--Old Scots March--Elizabeth,
      Equestrian Figure of--Meaning of Stickle--Latin
      Names of Towns--Llandudno, on the Great Orme's
      Head--Brozier--Passage in Troilus and Cressida--Nelson
      Family--Maps of Africa--Muggleton--Passage in
      Hamlet--Theoloneum--Donkey--Sir Samuel Garth--Princes
      of Wales and Earls of Chester, &c.: Mr. Bush's
      Collection--Litera scripta manet                           235

      MISCELLANEOUS:--

      Notes on Books, &c.                                        237

      Books and Odd Volumes wanted                               238

      Notices to Correspondents                                  238

      Advertisements                                             239




Notes.


SOUTH SEA PLAYING CARDS.

It is pretty generally known that, during the South Sea mania, a pack of
playing cards was published in illustration of the prevailing folly.
Each card contained a caricature of one of the numerous bubble
companies, with a pertinent verse underneath. These cards are now
extremely rare. I never saw a complete set, nor do I know where one is
to be found. Some time ago a friend kindly furnished me with a copy of
all the verses (except one), and as I am not aware that they have been
printed separately, I beg to forward a transcript for preservation in
"N. & Q.;" not because I think they have any excellence to recommend
them, but because it is desirable that so curious a record of a very
extraordinary time should not be entirely lost.

Perhaps some of your correspondents can supply the missing verse:--

SPADES.

      Ace. _River Douglas._

      "Since bubbles came in vogue, new arts are found
      To cut thro' rocks, and level rising ground;
      That murmuring waters may be made more deep,
      To drown the knaves and lull the fools asleep."

      Two. _Grand Fishery._

      "Well might this bubble claim the style of grand,
      Whilst they that raised the same could fish by land;
      But now the town does at the project pish,
      They've nothing else to cry but stinking fish."

      Three. _Cleaning the Streets._

      "A cleanly project, well approved no doubt,
      By strolling dames, and all that walk on foot.
      This bubble well deserves the name of best,
      Because the cleanest bite of all the rest."

      Four. _Fish Pool._

      "How famous is the man that could contrive,
      To serve this gluttonous town with fish alive.
      But now we're bubbled by his fishing pools,
      And as the men catch fish, the fish catch fools."

      Five. _York Buildings Water Company._

      "You that are blest with wealth by your Creator,
      And want to drown your money in Thames water,
      Buy but York buildings, and the cistern there
      Will sink more pence than any fool can spare."

      Six. _Insurance on Lives._

      "Come all ye gen'rous husbands with your wives
      Insure round sums on your precarious lives,
      That to your comfort, when you're dead and rotten,
      Your widows may be rich when you're forgotten."

      Seven. _Stockings Company._

      "You that delight to keep your sweaty feet,
      By often changing stockings, clean and neat,
      Deal not in stocking shares, because I doubt
      Those that buy most 'ere long will go without."

      Eight. _Puckles Machine_ (Bullets round and square).

      "A rare invention to destroy the crowd
      Of fools at home, instead of foes abroad.
      Fear not, my friends, this terrible machine,
      They're only wounded that have shares therein."

      Nine. _Welsh Copper._

      "This bubble for a time may current pass,
      Copper's the title, but 'twill end in brass;
      Knaves cry it up, fools buy, but when it fails,
      The losing crowd will cry 'lots splutter a'nails.'"

      Ten. _Providing for and employing all the Poor of
      Great Britain._

      "The poor when managed and employ'd in trade,
      Are to the public welfare useful made.
      But if kept idle, from their vices spring
      W----s for the stews, and soldiers for the king."

      Knave. _Raddish Oil._

      "Our oily project with the gaping town,
      Will surely for a time go smoothly down.
      We sow and press to carry on the cheat:
      To bite Change Alley is not fraud, but wit."

      Queen. _For erecting Hospitals for taking in and maintaining
      Illegitimate Children._

      "Love on, ye jolly rakes and buxom dames,
      A child is safer than venereal flames;
      Indulge your senses with the sweet offence,
      We'll keep your bastards at a small expence."

      King. _An inoffensive Way of emptying Houses of Office._

      "Our fragrant bubble, would the world believe it,
      Is to make human dung smell sweet as civet;
      None sure before us ever durst presume
      To turn a ... into a rich perfume."

CLUBS.

      Ace. _Lute-string Co._

      "These crafty managers have play'd for years
      The world as many tricks as dancing bears,
      By bubbling too they broke their ancient rules;
      They first made lute-strings, but they now make fools."

      Two. _Paste board Manufacturing Co._

      "As empty sayings flow from windy fools,
      So pasteboard bubbles rise from paper skulls.
      Madness must surely be the town's disease
      When knaves get money by such whims as these."

      Three. _Trade to Harborough._

      "You that delight to take up foreign linen,
      At Harbro' made, a little town near Bremen,
      Encourage trade abroad for time to come,
      And, like kind fools, neglect your own at home."

      Four. _Saltpetre._

      "Come all ye black infernal powder makers,
      And Rocketeers that deal in squibs and crackers,
      Buy petre stock, let me be your adviser,
      'Twill make you (tho' not richer) much the wiser."

      Five. _For Bleaching Coarse Sugars._

      "Fair tattling gossips, you that love to see
      Fine sugar blended with expensive tea,
      Since you delight in things both dear and sweet,
      Buy sugar shares, and you'll be sweetly bit."

      Six. _Fatting of Hogs._

      "Come all ye bacon making, greasy rogues
      That want good names for your meagre hogs,
      Send them to us, and at a small expence,
      We'll fat 'em up with offal, blood, and grains."

      Seven. _Rose Insurance from Fire._

      "Projecting sure must be a gainful trade,
      Since all the elements are bubbles made;
      They're right that gull us with the dread of fire,
      For fear makes greater fools than fond desire."

      Eight. _Buying Seamen's Tickets._

      "As the case stands, the Wapping wives all buy
      The seamen's tickets for a small supply;
      But 'tis no matter whether spendthrift slaves
      Are choused by Wapping w----s, or bubbling knaves."

      Nine. _Liverpool Fresh Water._

      "This town does to our Western Islands deal,
      And serves 'em with malt liquors, and with meal,
      Both excellently good! then how in nature
      Can people brew fine drink, yet want fresh water."

      Ten. _Bleaching of Hair Company._

      "Here dirty brown, dark red, and yellow hair,
      Are bleach'd to colours that are fine and fair,
      Then blended,--so that half the w----s in town
      Contribute to adorn one addled crown."

      Knave. _Freeholders Company._

      "Come all ye spendthrift prodigals that hold
      Free land, and want to turn the same to gold,
      We'll buy your all, provided you agree
      To drown your purchase-money in South Sea."

      Queen. _Lending Money on Bottomry._

      "Some lend their money for the sake of more,
      And others borrow to increase their store;--
      Both these do oft engage in Bottomree,
      But curse sometimes the bottom of the sea."

      King. _Irish Sail Cloth._

      "If good St. Patrick's friends should raise a stock,
      And make in Irish looms true hollands duck,
      Then shall this noble project, by my soul,
      No longer be a bubble but a bull."

HEARTS.

      Ace. _Hemp and Flax._

      "Here hemp is served for stubborn rogues to die in,
      And softer flax for tender skins to lie in,
      But should the useful project be defeated,
      The knaves will prosper, and the fools be cheated."

      Two. _Manuring of Land._

      "A noble undertaking, but abused,
      And only as a tricky bubble used;--
      Much they pretend to, but the public fear,
      They'll never make corn cheap, or horse-dung dear!"

      Three. _Coal Trade from Newcastle._

      "Some deal in water, some in wind like fools,
      Others in wood, but we alone in coals;
      From such like projects a declining nation
      May justly fear a fatal inflammation."

      Four. _Water Engine._

      "Come all ye culls, my water engine buy
      To pump your flooded mines and coal-pits dry:
      Some projects are all wind, but ours is water,
      And tho' at present low, may rise herea'ter."

      Five. _Royal Fishery of Great Britain._

      "They talk of distant seas, of ships and nets,
      And with the style of Royal, gild their baits;
      When all that the projectors hope or wish for
      Is to catch fools, the only chubs they fish for."

      Six. _Erecting Houses of Office in Britain for Strangers
      and Travellers._

      "A useful project merrily advanced,
      Tho' chiefly by town-nightmen countenanced,
      Design'd to sweeten the North British nation,
      And put close stools and bedpans out of fashion."

      Seven. _Building Ships to let to Freight._

      "Who but a nest of blockheads to their cost,
      Would build new ships for freights when trade is lost?
      To raise fresh barks must surely be amusing,
      When hundreds rot in docks for want of using."

      Eight. _Drying Malt by the Air._

      "Of all the windy projects now in vogue
      To fleece the fool, and feed the cunning rogue,
      The malting bubble seems to be most fair,
      Because our maltsters own they work by air."

      Nine. _English Copper and Brass Company._

      "The headlong fool that wants to be a swopper
      Of gold and silver coin for English copper,
      May in Change Alley prove himself an ass,
      And give rich metal for adult'rate brass."

      Ten. _Exporting Timber from Germany._

      "You that are rich and hasty to be poor,
      Buy timber export from the German shore;
      For gallowses built up of foreign wood,
      If rightly used, may do Change Alley good."

      Knave. _For Erecting Salt-works in Holy Island._

      "Here by mixt elements of earth and water,
      They make a mud that turns to salt herea'ter,
      To help the project on among Change dealers,
      May all bad wives, like Lot's, become salt pillars,
      Since crowds of fools delight to be salt sellers."

      Queen. _Curing Tobacco for Snuff._

      "Here slaves for snuffs are sifting Indian weed,
      Whilst th' overseer does the riddle feed.
      The dust arising gives their eyes much trouble,
      To show their blindness that espouse the bubble."

      King. _Whale Fishery._

      "Whale fishing, which was once a gainful trade,
      Is now by cunning heads a bubble made,
      For round the Change they only spread their sails,
      And to catch gudgeons, bait their hooks with whales."

DIAMONDS.

      Ace. _Sir J. Lambert's Improvement of Land Company._

      "The famous knight that is the sole projector,
      Of this new bubble, is a South director;
      But 'twod be better taken at his hands,
      To raise poor South Sea, than improve poor lands."

      Two. _Greenland Trade._

      "This project was to catch, to cut or boil,
      Huge whales and other monstrous fish to oil;
      A stinking bubble tho' of late so dear,
      Yet now the greatest sharers stink for fear."

      Three. [Wanting.]

      Four. _Insurance on Horses._

      "You that keep horses to preserve your ease,
      And pads to please your wives and mistresses,
      Insure their lives, and if they die we'll make
      Full satisfaction, or be bound to break."

      Five. _Bahama Islands._

      "Rare fruitful isles, where not an ass can find
      A verdant tuft or thistle to his mind.
      How then must those poor silly asses fare,
      That leave their native land to settle there?"

      Six. _Insurance on Ships._

      "In vain are all insurances,--for still
      The raging winds must answer heaven's hill;
      To what wise purpose do we then insure,
      Since some must lose whate'er the sea devour?"

      Seven. _Rock-salt._

      "You that are willing to preserve your meat
      In winter savoury, and in summer sweet,
      Encourage this salt project, and your coin
      Will turn to some account--at least to brine."

      Eight. _Settling Colonies in Acadia, N. America._

      "He that is rich and wants to fool away
      A good round sum in North America,
      Let him subscribe himself a headlong sharer,
      And asses' ears shall honour him or bearer."

      Nine. _Pennsylvanian Company._

      "Come all ye saints that would for little buy
      Great tracts of land, and care not where they lie,
      Deal with your Quaking friends, they're men of light;
      The spirit hates deceit, and scorns to bite."

      Ten. _Purchasing Estates illegally detained._

      "You that have dormant titles to estates,
      Piled on your closet shelves to feed the rats,
      Sell them to us, we'll gratify your spite,
      And plague the rogues that roil you of your right."

      Knave. _Coral Fishery._

      "Coral, that beauteous product only found
      Beneath the water and above the ground,
      If fish'd for as it ought, from thence might spring
      A Neptune's palace for a British king."

      Queen. _Furnishing Funerals to all Parts of Great
      Britain._

      "Come all ye sickly mortals, die apace,
      And solemn pomps your funerals shall grace;
      Old rusty hackneys still attend each hearse,
      And scarecrows in black gowns complete the farce."

      King. _Temple Mills._

      "By these old mills strange wonders have been done,
      Numbers have suffer'd, yet they still work on;
      Then tell us, which have done the greater ills,
      The Temple lawyers, or the Temple Mills?"

    JNO. SUDLOW.


BIRTHPLACE OF THE EMPRESS JOSEPHINE.

It is commonly believed that the Island of Martinique was the birthplace
of Marie Josephine Rose Tascher de la Pagerie, better known as the
Empress Josephine. It would seem, however, from the following
circumstances, that St. Lucia has a preferable claim to that
distinction. By the treaty of Paris (10th February, 1763), St. Lucia,
until then one of the neutral islands, was ceded to France, and was made
a dependency of Martinique. The first step adopted by the local
authorities on that occasion, was to offer extensive grants of land in
St. Lucia to such families in Martinique as might be disposed to settle
in the former island; and among those who took advantage of the proposal
was M. de Tascher, the father of Josephine. In the course of the year
1763 he came over to St. Lucia, and settled with his family on the crest
of a hill called _Paix-Bouche_, within a few miles of the site now
occupied by the principal town. Here they continued to reside until
1771, when M. de Tascher, having been selected for the office of
President of the _Conseil Souverain_ in Martinique, returned with his
family to that island, taking with him a child seven years old, to whom
Madame de Tascher had given birth at _Morne Paix-Bouche_ on the 24th
June, 1764, and who was destined to become the wife of Bonaparte and the
Empress of France.

The fact that M. de Tascher and his family settled in St. Lucia after
the Treaty of Paris, is too well established to require corroboration.
The fact that his residence there extended from 1763 to 1771, is no less
certain. While collecting materials some years ago for the history of
St. Lucia, I met with the most authentic proofs of this circumstance;
but having returned the books and documents to the several parties to
whom they belonged, I am unable at this moment to give a special
reference under this head. As regards the particular date of
Mademoiselle De Tascher's birth, I am indebted for a knowledge of it to
no less an authority than M. Sidney Daney, the author of a voluminous
history of Martinique, who, while asserting that she was born on the
paternal estate in that island, records the date in the following words:

  "Cette année 1764 fut signalée par la naissance d'une femme qui,
  tout en parvenant à la plus glorieuse des destinées humaines,
  devait être à la fois le symbole le plus doux de cette divine
  charité. Le vingt-quatre Juin naquit aux Trois-Ilets, sur
  l'habitation de ses parens, Marie Josephine Rose Tascher de la
  Pagerie."

That the claim of St. Lucia to the honour of having given birth to that
remarkable woman is no idle dream, no imaginary pretension, now set up
for the first time, can be shown by many circumstances. From her
coronation in 1804, to her death in 1814, there were several persons in
St. Lucia who asserted their knowledge of the fact. Some of them were
still living in 1825, when the late Sir John Jeremie came to St. Lucia
and collected information on the subject. In 1831 that able judge
published in a local newspaper a short historical notice of St. Lucia,
in which he gives the following unequivocal testimony on this question.
I quote from the _St. Lucia Gazette and Public Advertiser_ of 23rd
February, 1831:

  "On the summit of one of its (St. Lucia's) highest mountains, the
  _Paix-Bouche_ (a word which in Negro-French is significantly
  expressive of silence), on a spot surrounded by trees, apparently
  the growth of centuries, it might be supposed that here at least
  the very name of the extraordinary being who has given an impulse
  to the age of Napoleon had scarcely reached. A few yards from the
  almost impracticable and faintly traced path is the mouldering
  foundation of a decayed cottage. _That was the birthplace of
  Josephine._ The inhabitants of Martinique, with whom all the St.
  Lucia families are connected, lay claim to Josephine as their
  countrywoman. The fact is, however, as I have stated it; and this
  was admitted by one of her own family at Martinique to a lady of
  our island, but with the truly French addition, 'qu'elle n'avait
  fait qu'y naître.' The companion of her childhood was Mr. Martin
  Raphael, late a councillor of the royal court, who is still
  living, and who on visiting France was kindly received by her at
  Malmaison. Madame Delomel, who died but a few months ago at a very
  advanced age, knew her well."

On my arrival in St. Lucia in 1831, an old woman of colour, named
_Dédé_, was pointed out to me as having been in the service of the
Taschers at _Morne Paix-Bouche_. She was then residing with the family
of Mr. R. Juge, the President of the Court of First Instance, and that
gentleman assured me that nothing was more certain than that Josephine
was born in St. Lucia. I afterwards had several conversations with
_Dédé_ on the subject, and she confirmed Mr. Juge's statement, adding
that she was present at the time of Josephine's birth, and was employed
as her _bonne_ until the departure of the family for Martinique. _Dédé_
was an intelligent old dame, then about eighty years of age, and was
greatly respected by every one.

I am aware that all this is at variance with the biographical records of
our time, which assign Martinique as the place of Josephine's birth. But
this inaccuracy may be accounted for on the following grounds. 1st. St.
Lucia is within a short distance of Martinique, and at the period of
Josephine's birth was a dependency, a portion, as it were, of that
colony. 2nd. The family had long been settled in Martinique before they
came to St. Lucia, and all their predilections were for the former
island. 3rd. Their sojourn in St. Lucia was not of long duration, and in
a few years the circumstance of their having been there at all was
probably forgotten by the public. 4th. There was no priest in St. Lucia
in 1764, by whom the child might have been christened, and the place of
her birth established beyond dispute. 5th. When at a subsequent period
she was baptized in Martinique, it happened naturally enough that there
was no one present who had any knowledge of her having been born in St.
Lucia, or who felt any concern in the matter. 6th. M. De Tascher had now
become a personage of some distinction, and he was probably not
unwilling to efface the recollection of his having been, at one time, a
needy planter in the wilds of St. Lucia. 7th. Facts which have since
acquired an obvious importance, were of none at all in 1771. The
suppression of such a circumstance, whether intentional or accidental,
would have attracted no notice at that period of the history of the
Taschers. It was not then anticipated that a member of the family would,
at no very remote period, become associated with the greatest actor in
the most extraordinary revolution in the world's history, and prove
herself not unworthy of so exalted a destiny.

All that relates to the Empress Josephine receives an added degree of
interest from recent occurrences. It would be strange if the wife who
was discarded by Napoleon because she could not give him an heir for the
imperial throne, should give him, if not an heir, his first successor,
in the person of her grandson, Prince Louis Napoleon. As regards St.
Lucia, too, there is a coincidence which may be worth mentioning. When
Napoleon fell into our hands after the battle of Waterloo, St. Lucia was
the place _first_ selected for his exile; but in consequence of the
dangers likely to arise frown its proximity to Martinique, the scheme
was relinquished, and the preference given to St. Helena.

    HENRY H. BREEN.

  St. Lucia.


NOTES ON HOMER, NO. III.

(_Continued from_ Vol. v., p. 172.)

_Lachmann and Grote. New Views._

Agreeably to my promise at the conclusion of my former article, I
continue and conclude my remarks on the Homeric question.

Nitzsch, one of Wolf's most indefatigable and learned opponents,
examined his theory with the closest critical nicety, and, by proving
its fallaciousness, he shook the stability of it very much--not wholly,
however, because disproof does not always engender disbelief; scholars
were beginning to lose faith therein, when, ten years ago, the late Carl
Lachmann revived it, with certain modifications, in his _Fernere
Betrachtungen über die Ilias_ (Abhandl. Berlin. Acad. 1841), where he
has proposed the following views:--

That the Homeric poems were not composed by one man, but by several,
working together; and that, after the collection of these lays by
Peisistratos, the history of them is precisely as given us by classical
writers.

This proposition, to use the words of Grote[1], "explains the gaps and
contradictions in the narrative, but it explains nothing else;" and is
further refuted by the actual facts of the poems themselves[2], where,
as we find, no contradictions bearing on this point occur, and the whole
sixteen poets (for such is Lachmann's number) concur in killing and
sending off the stage, so to speak, these considerable chieftains (and
all in the first battle after the secession of Achilles), Elephenor,
chief of the Euboeans[3], Tlepolemos, of the Rhodians[4]; Pandaros of
the Lycians[5]; Odios, of the Halizonians[6]; Pirous and Acamas, of the
Thracians[7]; besides many of inferior note. None of these reappear in
the whole course of the work; and it seems strange, as Mure continues,
that "any number of 'independent poets' should have so harmoniously
dispensed with the services of all six in the sequel." And he then cites
the solitary discrepancy, Pylæmenes, as the only exception[8], whose
death is related in the fifth, and who weeps at his son's funeral in the
thirteenth book. This however, Mure explains as an oversight on the part
of the poet (which is, however, _impossible_), or to the more probable
cause of an interpolation of verses 658 and 659 by an early rhapsodist,
"better versed in the 'Battle of the Ships,' as his habitual part in the
recital, than in the 'Prowess of Diomed.'"

  [Footnote 1: Grote, vol. ii. p. 231.]

  [Footnote 2: Mure, Appendix C., vol. i. p. 507.]

  [Footnote 3: Ιλ. iv. 469.]

  [Footnote 4: Ιλ. v. 659.]

  [Footnote 5: Ιλ. v. 290.]

  [Footnote 6: v. 39.]

  [Footnote 7: iv. 527., vi. 7.]

  [Footnote 8: v. 576., xiii. 658.]

Grote also objects to the modifications of Lachmann, and in the
following words:

  "The advocates of the Wolfian theory appear to feel the
  difficulties which beset it: for their language is wavering in
  respect to these supposed primary atoms.... I will add in respect
  to his [Lachmann's] dissertations, so instructive as a microscopic
  examination of the poem, 1. That I find myself constantly
  dissenting from that critical feeling on the strength of which he
  cuts out parts as interpolations, and discovers traces of the
  hands of distinct poets: 2. That his objections against the
  continuity of the narrative are often founded upon lines which the
  ancient scholiasts and Mr. Payne Knight had already pronounced to
  be interpolations: 3. That such of his objections as are founded
  upon lines undisputed admit, in many cases, of a complete and
  satisfactory reply."[9]

  [Footnote 9: _Hist. of Greece_, vol. ii. p. 232. n. 1.]

Grote's own opinions on the subject are difficult to arrive at, but what
he _has_ said is mostly true. These three different views of the Homeric
controversy have, as I have said, occupied the world since thinking on
the subject began; each hypothesis has found most able, critical, and
quibbling adherents and opponents, each affirming and proving, after his
own way, what the others denied and scouted.

There is another author who has likewise discussed the subject of Homer,
and in a way more attractive to the general reader; and that is the
finely-feeling and learned Walter Savage Landor, in his _Pericles and
Aspasia_. Speaking in the person of Pericles, he says[10]:--

  "I have no paradox to maintain, no partiality to defend. Some tell
  us there were twenty Homers; some deny that there was ever one.
  _It were idle and foolish to shake the contents of a vase in order
  to let them settle at last._ We are perpetually labouring to
  destroy our delights, our composure, our devotion to superior
  power. Of all the animals on earth we least know what is good for
  us. My opinion is, that what is best for us is our admiration of
  good. No man living venerates Homer more than I do. He was the
  only author I read when I was a boy; for our teachers are usually
  of opinion that wisdom and poetry are, like fruits for children,
  unwholesome, if too fresh. Simonides had indeed grown somewhat
  sound; Pindar was heating; Æschylus ... ay, but Æschylus was
  almost at the next door. Homer then nourished my fancy, animated
  my dreams, awoke me in the morning, marched with me, sailed with
  me, taught me morals, taught me language, taught me music, and
  philosophy, and war."

  [Footnote 10: _Pericles and Aspasia_, Letter LXXXIV.--_Works_,
  vol. ii. p. 387.]

Agreeing with my honoured friend in what I have italicised above, I
think it is time that the Homeric question were set at rest, and, to
atone for our error in shaking the vase, let it remain at peace forever.
I offer my reflections on the subject with extreme diffidence, yet,
though I confess myself open to correction, and desirous of it, as a
friend to literature, I cannot say that I think my views will be found
far from an approximation to the truth, which, at this remote age, is
all we can possibly arrive at. As Plinius Secundus held that there was
no book so bad but that something might be learned from it, so I hold
that there is no theory so bad (always excepting that one put forth by
some escaped Bedlamite, of Shakspeare's non-being, and that his works
were the composition of the monks), but that there lies some truth at
the bottom of it. On that principle I have endeavoured "to lay the keel"
(as Southey used to say of his planned poems) of a reconciliation
between all the beliefs of all the theorists.

I will state my theory, as I have done the others, in the plainest
possible terms; and, to begin at the beginning, I must go back to the
origin of song. Is it possible that an army like that of the Hellenes
when at Troy, had no idea of passing the weary evenings except in
drinking and talking? No: surely not. We find Phemios singing, in the
_Odyssea_, lays of much the same kidney as those in Athenæos, and in
Xenophon's _Symposion_. These were short recitals of some particular
circumstance of antiquity, half religious and half earthly. No doubt the
common soldiers of that age had, like the common sailors of some fifty
years ago, some one qualified to "discourse in excellent music" among
them. Many of these, like those of the negroes in the United States,
were extemporaneous, and allusive to events passing around them. But
what was passing around them? The grand events of a spirit-stirring war;
occurrences likely to impress themselves, as the mystical legends of
former times had done, upon their memory; besides which, a retentive
memory was deemed a virtue of the first water, and was cultivated
accordingly, in those ancient times. Ballads at first, and down to the
beginning of the war with Troy, were mere recitations with an
intonation. Then followed a species of recitative, probably with an
intoned burden. Tune next followed, as it aided the memory considerably.

It was at this period, about four hundred years after the war, that a
poet flourished of the name of Melesigenes, or Meonides, but most
probably the former. He saw that these ballads might be made of great
utility to his purpose of writing a poem on the social position of
Hellas, and as a collection he published these lays, connecting them by
a tale of his own. This poem now exists under the title of the
_Odyssea_. The author, however, did not affix his own name to the poem,
which, in fact, was great part of it remodelled from the archaïc dialect
of Crete, in which tongue the ballads were found by him. He therefore
called it the poem of _Homeros_, or the Collector.[11] But this is
rather a proof of his modesty and talent, than of his mere drudging
arrangement of other people's ideas, for, as Grote has finely observed,
arguing for the unity of authorship, "a great poet might have recast
pre-existing separate songs into one comprehensive whole; but no mere
arrangers or compilers would be competent to do so."[12]

  [Footnote 11: Welcker, _Der Epische Cyclus_, p. 127. Professor
  Wilson, in his _System of Hindu Mythology_ (Introduct. p. lxii.),
  has the following passage, quoted by Grote: "The sage Vyasa is
  represented not as the author, but as the arranger and compiler of
  the Vedas and the Purânas. His name dates his character, meaning
  the _arranger_ or _distributor_; and the recurrence of so many
  Vyasas,--many individuals who new-modelled the Hindu
  Scriptures,--has nothing in it that is improbable, except the
  fabulous intervals by which their labours are separated."]

  [Footnote 12: _Hist of Greece_, vol. ii. p. 232.]

While employed on the wild legend of Odysseus, he met with a ballad
recording the quarrel of Achilles and Agamemnon; his noble mind seized
the hint that there presented itself, and the _Achilleïs_[13] grew under
his hand. Unity of design, however, caused him to publish the poem under
the same pseudonyme as his former work; and the disjointed lays of the
ancient bards were joined together, like those relating to the Cid, into
a chronicle history, named the _Iliad_.[14] Melesigenes knew that the
poem was destined to be a lasting one; and so it has proved. But first,
the poems were destined to undergo many vicissitudes and corruptions, by
the people who took to singing them in the streets, assemblies, and
agoras. However, Solon first, and then Peisistratos, and afterwards
Aristoteles and others, revised the poems, and restored the works of
Melesigenes Homeros to their original integrity in a great measure. But
that this was of no great avail is evident from the corruption
οἰωνοῖσί τε πᾶσι, in the opening. _All_ birds are not carnivorous, and
therefore the passage must be wrong: besides, the words immediately
following, savouring somewhat of interpolation, and, indeed, being
condemned by some as such, would lead to the fair assumption that the
whole line was corrupted.

  [Footnote 13: "The first book, together with the eighth, and the
  books from the eleventh to the twenty-second inclusive, seem to
  form the primary organisation of the poem, _then properly an
  Achilleïs_," &c.--Grote, Vol. ii. pp. 235. fol.]

  [Footnote 14: Mure, vol. i. p. 23 n. Ticknor, _History of Spanish
  Literature_, vol. i. p. 11. seq.]

I said before (Vol. v., p. 99.) that the Cyclic poems illustrated the
history of the Homeric compositions, just as the letters of Poplicola,
and those of Philo Junius, illustrate the history of Junius; but I am
not inclined to deprive them all of credit as the compositions of the
same poet. For instance, part of the Ιλιας μικρα was probably
done from the notes of Melesigenes, who was, like Herodotos, always at
work upon some matter.

The origin of writing has been made a stumbling-block in the Homeric
question, and most foolishly; and I must again agree with Colonel Mure
on this subject. Mr. Grote, Mr. Granville Penn, and the Colonel, have
done more for the elucidation of the question than any other scholars of
the present or last age; and it is to them we must turn for further
assistance. I wish they would give their attention to the hymns,
especially that to Hermes; for "thereby hangs a tale."

As for me, I leave my speculations to the mercy of those who do not
think like myself. I am satisfied that they are not far from the truth,
and as near as we can hope to come in these days. Indeed, it is a
well-known fact, embodied in the old proverb, "What's one man's meat's
another's poison;" and that which is convincing to one is the contrary
to another.

Ere I "close" my "scribblings," however, I must tender my thanks to the
Editor of "N. & Q.," for his kind admission of these articles to his
pages. Haveto!

    KENNETH R. H. MACKENZIE.

  March 3. 1852.


FOLK LORE.

_Ancient Custom on Interment._--I have read that it was a custom to
inter an hour-glass with the deal, as an emblem of the sand of life
being run out; or perhaps (as I should rather suggest) to intimate that
the departed, having entered upon eternity, had done with time. I
believe that in the early part of the last century the custom had not
entirely disappeared, and that small hour-glasses were given to the
friends of the deceased attending at funerals, and were put beside the
corpse (like rosemary), or thrown into the grave? Does the custom still
linger in any remote parts of the country?

    W. S. G.

  Newcastle-on-Tyne.

_Pure Rain Water._--_Pure rain water_ is said to be an infallible cure
for sore eyes, and cases are reported to the writer by persons who have
tried and fancy they have proved its efficacy. The rain water must be
collected in a clean open vessel, _in the month of June_, and must not
be contaminated be being previously collected by any other means; it
will then remain pure for any length of time, if preserved in a bottle.

    T. D.

  Gainsbro'.

_Cure for Hooping Cough._--This complaint is very prevalent in my
neighbourhood just now. I overheard a conversation the other day between
some farmers: one was recommending the patient to inhale the breath of a
horse as a certain cure; another gravely informed his audience that the
sight of a piebald horse would afford immediate relief!

    G. A. C.


SAINTED KINGS INCORRUPTIBLE.

In the Appendix to Evelyn's interesting _Diary_ (last edition, 1850),
your readers may recollect there is a note upon the "unexpected finding
the crucifix and gold chain of that pious prince, St. Edward the
Confessor." The note contains an extract from the narrative of the
circumstances attending the finding of those relics by "Charles Taylour,
Gent." (or, Henry Keepe--the writer's correct name). It appears from
that account, that when, in 1163, Thomas à Becket obtained a
canonisation of the king, and the coffin was opened, the body was found
uncorrupted; and that, 136 years after William I. had commanded the
coffin to be enshrined, when the abbot resolved to inspect the body,
then likewise "said to be incorruptible," he found it so, "being
perfect, the limbs flexible," &c.

A curious parallel to this presented itself recently to one in the
course of a reference to the 2nd volume of Mr. W. B. MacCabe's curious
and laborious _Catholic History of England_. [_En passant_, allow me to
express the hope, in which I well know many sympathise, that the
long-promised _third_ volume, bringing the history down to the accession
of William the Conqueror, will ere long appear. The work gives in a
well-arranged form so much that is curious in our early national
records, that it would be a matter of regret that it should not be
completed. It is a great pity indeed that the author's original plan, to
carry the history down to the Reformation, should have been abandoned.]
After describing the burial of Edgar (also a "Confessor," as well as St.
Edward), it is stated that "in the year 1052, upon his tomb being opened
by the Abbot Eilward, his body was found perfectly _free from_ the
slightest stain of _corruption_;" and that upon the body being
"profanely hacked," in order to make it fit the receptacle prepared for
it, "torrents of blood burst from the king's corpse." (W. Malmsb. _Ges.
Reg. Ang._) This, be it remembered, was eighty-seven years after burial.
The body was afterwards deposited in a shrine. Are there other examples
mentioned by the chroniclers of the incorruptibility of saintly kings?
Both Edward and Edgar were, it should be recollected, good friends to
the monks. William of Malmsbury, in the course of his eulogium upon
Edgar, mentions the important fact that the monarch not only gave--

      "Templa Deo,"

but also--

      "Templis Monachos, Monachis dedit agros."

Were not these strong reasons why the king should remain uncorrupted, at
all events in the memory, and also the records, of the brotherhood?

    J. J. S.


Minor Notes.

_Rev. A. Butler._--The Rev. R. Gibbings, M.A., did some years since give
to the public an exact reprint of the first Roman _Index Expurgatorius_,
in the lengthened Introduction to which he has treated of the whole
literature pertaining to the question.

The same rev. gentleman is author of the following elegant inscription
on the monument of the Rev. Archer Butler, recently professor of moral
philosophy in Trinity College, Dublin. Your miscellany seems an
appropriate place wherein to enshrine matters of this order.

      "D. O. M.

            "GUILIELMUS ARCHER BUTLER, A.M.
          Rathmothachiæ Rector in Dioecesi Rapotensi,
            Apud Dublinienses in Ethicis Professor,
                Theologus, Poeta, Philosophus,
      Optimis ingenii dotibus, summâque eloquentiâ præditus,
          Multa pro Ecclesiâ Christi feliciter conscripsit,
                      Plura moliebatur.
              Viris ille bonis doctisque juxta carus,
                  Integer vitæ, maturus animi,
              Religione devinctus, concionibus potens
                Æqualium decus, simul et exemplar,
                    Malignâ febre correptus,
                    Eheu, quàm intempestivè!
      E terris migravit A.D. MDCCCXLVIII. ætatis suæ XXXVII.,
            Triste desiderium superstitibus relinquens,
      Amici piè memores hoc illi monumentum poni voluere."

    O. T. D.

_Birthplace of Bishop Hoadley._--On the west side of the London Road,
Westerham, Kent, are some neatly built brick cottages: before one of
them stands a yew tree, which, I was informed by an intelligent
inhabitant of the town, was planted by the Rev.--Hoadley, on the birth
of his son Benjamin. Although the tree still marks the spot, the house
itself does not now stand; it was razed to the ground some years since
to make room for the present buildings. Benjamin's brother, who was
afterwards Archbishop of Dublin, was also born in this house. I may add
that this is not generally known in the town, but I think the above
"Note" is accurate.

    H. G. D.

_Humboldt's "Cosmos," and Nares' "Attempt."_--Observing that the learned
and accomplished Humboldt has concluded his _Cosmos_ in German, although
the English translation of the last portion has not yet appeared,--an
extremely valuable and interesting scientific contribution towards a
general view of human knowledge regarding the universe,--will you permit
me to observe, that as it perhaps did not enter into his plan to
consider the _religious_ considerations that arise from a _Christian's_
view of the universe in its relation to our small portion of its
apparently illimitable extent, any reader of Humboldt's work who wishes
to see how a scholar and a divine of a former generation has treated the
subject, will, if I mistake not, peruse the following work with singular
pleasure, making all due allowance for the imperfect state of
scientific knowledge at the time when the author wrote:--

  "Εις Θεος Εις Μεσιτης; or, an Attempt to show how far
  the Philosophical Notion of a Plurality of Worlds is consistent,
  or not so, with the language of the Holy Scriptures. By the Rev.
  Edward Nares, A.M., Rector of Biddenden, Kent, and late Fellow of
  Merton College, Oxford. 8vo. London, 1801."

The author, I may add, was a friend of the eminent geologist, De Luc.

    J. M.

_Gough, the Irish Portion of his Camden: Ledwich._--The following
cutting from a Dublin bookseller's Catalogue (Connolly, 6. Chancery
Place, Feb. 1852) may perhaps find a corner in "N. & Q." Dr. Ledwich was
the Will-o'-the-Wisp that led Gough astray in the matter of Irish
antiquities. Few, indeed, of the "additions" made to honest Camden's
original are of value, many of them are worse than valueless:--

  "ANTIQUITIES OF IRELAND, from Gough's edition of Camden's
  Britannia, profusely illustrated with plates and maps from various
  works, including Ortelliu's (Ortelius') rare map of Ireland, all
  of which were inserted by the Rev. Mr. Ledwich, the Irish
  Antiquarian, royal folio, half russia, neat, 3_l._ 10_s._

  "This unique copy was presented by Mr. Gough to the Rev. Mr.
  Ledwich, and bears Gough's autograph: 'For the Rev. Mr. Ledwich.
  From the author. 1789.'

  "Mr. Ledwich presented the book to Wm. Monck Mason, Esq., having
  written the following memorandum:--

  "'I assisted Mr. Gough in this edition, and he spontaneously
  promised a copy of the work in 3 vols. folio, but put me off with
  this paltry volume. So he served my valuable friend, Mr. Beauford
  of Athy.

  "'Viveret in terris te si quis avarior uno?'

  "'_Horace._

  "'E. L., F.A.S., 1790.'

  "A copy of the original note [to Mason] inserted in the book--

  "'York Street, 3rd Feb. 1817.

  "'Dear Sir--Having parted with all my books, for not one of my
  family could or would read them, I have retained what I send you.
  It is a small return for the presents you made me.

  "'Small as it is, have the goodness to accept of it as a testimony
  of my obligations and friendship.

  "'Believe me yours sincerely,

  "'E. LEDWICH.'

  "The work is Gough's Britannia, the Irish Part."

    JAMES GRAVES.

  Kilkenny.

_Chronogram_ over the door of Sherborne school, marking the date 1670:

   "Tecta, Draco custos, Leo vinDeX fLos Decus, auctor, ReX pius,
   hæc servat, protegit, ornat, aLit."

The letters DLDXLDXL are capitals, and rubricated.

    S. S.

_Junius and the Quarterly Review again._--The article on the Letters of
Junius, in the last number of the _Quarterly Review_, is very pleasantly
written. But I suppose it will not be considered to have rendered
probable the notion that Thomas Lord Lyttelton was the writer of those
letters. The reviewer observes that "Lord Lyttelton," meaning George,
the first Lord Lyttelton, is only once mentioned by Junius. Undoubtedly
Junius mentions "Lord _Littleton's_ integrity and judgment" (Woodfall,
ii. 305.) Can it be imagined that Thomas Lord _Lyttelton_ could have so
mis-spelled his father's name?

    CAROLUS CURSITOR.




Queries.


SEVEN QUERIES.

1. On the 24th February, 1831, was published, at Speenhamland, the first
number of the _History and Antiquities of Newbury and its Environs_. Was
this work ever completed? If not, how many numbers were issued.

  ["The History and Antiquities of Newbury and its Environs,
  including twenty-eight Parishes situate in the County of Berks,
  also a Catalogue of Plants found in the Neighbourhood," was
  completed in 1839, and makes a volume of 340 pages.]

2. Can any information be given as to Hannah Woolley beyond what she
gives in the curious autobiographical sketch prefixed to her
_Gentlewoman's Companion, or a Guide to the Female Sex_; 3rd edition.
London, 1682, 12mo. Her maiden name she omits to mention; and all she
discloses as to her family and fortunes is, that her parents died when
she was very young, and that she had suffered "all manner of
affliction," "by loss of husband, children, friend, estate."

3. Amongst Mr. C. K. Sharpe's MSS. was sold _The Force of Love, or the
Ephesian Matron; a Dramatick Poem, in Three Parts_. From a playbill,
which was pasted on the fly-leaf, it seems that this drama was produced
for the benefit of Mr. and Mrs. Wallace, at the theatre in Sadler
Street, Durham, April 7, 1777. The performance was "gratis;" but 2_s._
6_d._, 2_s._, and 1_s._, for boxes, pit, and gallery, were charged for
the "Concert of Music." The title was changed into the _Matron of
Ephesus_, and the authorship was ascribed to Mr. Wallace. No notice
either of play or author occurs in the _Biographia Dramatica_.

4. Does any MS. of the _Conquest of China_, a tragedy, by Sir Robert
Howard, exist? I have in my library a scene written by the Earl of
Rochester for the author, and which, so far as I can trace, from the
very defective state of the libraries of the north, was never printed.
It is a beautiful MS., and some of the lines possess considerable
vigour. It is written in rhyme.

5. Who was the author of the _History of Faction, alias Hypocrisy, alias
Moderation, from its first Rise, down to its present Toleration in these
Kingdoms_? &c. London, 1705, 8vo.

6. Where can the fourth and concluding(?) number of Wright's _History of
Ludlow_ be obtained?

  [Only three Parts have been published. The last was issued in
  1847.]

7. Can you inform me who was the translator of--

  "_The Idea of Christian Love_; being a Translation, at the
  Instance of Mr. Waller, of a Latin Sermon upon John xiii. 34, 35.,
  preached by Mr. Edward Young, Prebend of Salisbury. With a large
  Paraphrase on Mr. Waller's Poem of _Divine Love_. To which are
  added, some Copies of Verses from that excellent Poetess Mrs.
  Wharton, with others to her. London, 1688, 8vo."

The versification is extremely good, but as I never saw the sermon, I
can have no notion whether the translation be faithful, or the reverse.
I suspect a Latin "preachment" would have few hearers, especially
now-a-days: but it would be interesting to see a Latin sermon which
Waller thought highly of, and which he proposed should be turned into
verse.

I have not been able to procure any information as to the sermon, or its
poetical translation, in any bibliographical work; but perhaps some of
your numerous readers may know something either about Mr. Edward Young,
the father I presume of the poet, or the translator.

Mrs. Wharton was the daughter of Sir H. Lee, of Ditchly, and the first
wife of the future Marquis of Wharton. A manuscript tragedy by her, and
in her own handwriting, is in my possession. It is the presentation copy
to Miss Mary Howe, whose autograph is on the fly-leaf. It is beautifully
bound in old morocco, and formerly belonged to Horace Walpole, whose
book-plate is on it. Who was Miss Mary Howe? It was purchased at the
dispersion of the curious MSS. of Mr. Charles K. Sharpe, who had a great
fancy for the lady's poetry. She is erroneously styled Marchioness of
Wharton in Park's edition of Walpole's _Royal and Noble Authors_.

    J. MT.

  [The Rev. Edward Young was father to the poet, and Rector of Upham
  in Hampshire, Prebendary of Salisbury, and lastly Dean of that
  church. He died in 1705. The translation and paraphrase in _The
  Idea of Christian Love_ is attributed to William Atwood in the
  Bodleian Catalogue.]


PLAGUE STONES.

In a recent and valuable report addressed to the General Board of
Health, on the sanitary state of the borough of Dorchester, by a
gentleman to whom I, in common with all the readers of "N. & Q.," have
often been indebted--I mean Robert Rawlinson, Esq.,--an allusion is made
to the existence of "Plague Stones" in different parts of the country.
Briefly recording the principal visitations of plague in Dorchester and
its neighbourhood, he describes these "plague stones" as "stones placed
on the boundary limits of old towns, having a circular or square
dish-like sinking in them, which was filled with water, into which the
town's people dropped the purchase-money in their dealings with the
country people, as was supposed, to prevent infection. _Such stones may
be seen in many places throughout England._" The object of this
communication is, to suggest the propriety of a list of these curious
relics being made, through the medium of your excellent paper. I am not
aware of any such list at present existing. A plague stone is to be
seen, I believe, at Penrith; and another near Manchester, which is, I am
told, called the "Giant's Stone." The name of the latter seems, to my
mind, to point to a more remote period, unless an existing monument of
antiquity bearing that title was during the times of plague converted to
the temporary use of receiving the suspected money in the hollowed dish,
which is made at the top of these "plague stones." By the way, might not
our forefathers have suffered less from the fearful visitations and
devastating epidemics to which so many hundreds of thousands of them
fell victims, if they had been as careful to _wash themselves_
habitually in _aqua pura_ as they were to wash the money which they
received from suspected localities. The custom above alluded to admitted
the powerfully cleansing qualities of water. It would have been good for
them, especially in trying times of plague, if they had not been so
accustomed to "let" the "_well_ alone," as regards their own personal
purification.

    J. J. S.

  The Cloisters, Temple.


Minor Queries.

_The Cross on Counsels' Briefs._--Can any of your correspondents inform
me as to the origin and present use of the cross on counsels' briefs?

H. EDWARDS.

_Sir James Hayes, of Bedgebury, Kent._--It is mentioned in the
_Gentleman's Magazine_, 1792, p. 21., that on the foundation stone of
Old Bedgebury House in Kent, was found, many years ago, an inscription
recording the building of that house in 1688 by Sir James Hayes, and
Rachel Viscountess Falkland, his wife. Allusion is made in the
inscription to his having attained _great wealth from the depths of the
ocean_; and there was a tradition that he had made his fortune by
_diving_. Can any of your readers supply information upon this subject?
Was he one of the party who under Phipps (the ancestor of the house of
Mulgrave) recovered 200,000_l._ out of a Spanish vessel, sunk of the
coast of Hispaniola in 1687? and where can the full particulars of that
adventure be met with?

    J. E. T.

_Authorship of the Song "Oh Nanny," &c._--A question as to the
nationality, if not the authorship, of this celebrated song was
discussed (if I remember aright) not long ago in letters printed in one
of the literary periodicals, probably the _Gentleman's Magazine_, but I
have not a reference at hand. It may be, that the facts I am about to
mention were adverted to in that discussion, and that the words are
admitted to be of English origin, and to have been written by Dr. Percy,
yet I am induced to send you this communication. In the drawing-room at
Ecton House, the mansion of Sam. Isted, Esq., at Ecton, a village about
five miles from Northampton, there was, in 1814, a portrait of the wife
of Thomas Percy, Bishop of Dromore (father of Mrs. Isted), holding in
her hand a scroll, on which is the celebrated song "Oh Nanny!" she being
the original, and the lines having been addressed to her before marriage
by the bishop. (_Account of a Tour, &c., published in the Scarborough
Repository_, by Cole, 1824.)

Perhaps some correspondent of yours in that vicinity would kindly say
whether the picture remains at Ecton; or, if not, what has become of it?

    W. S. G.

  Newcastle-on-Tyne.

_Hexameter Poem on English Counties._--Will any of your correspondents
be kind enough to furnish me with a copy of a poem in _hexameter_ verse,
and in an abbreviated form, enumerating the shires or counties in
England? In my early days it was very common in public schools, and I am
enabled to give a portion of one verse, viz.------"Dev. Dors. Gl. Oxfo.
Buck. Hart. Ess."

    M.

  Dublin.

_Wild Oats, Origin of the Phrase._--Can any of your correspondents
favour me with the origin and definition of the phrase "To sow your wild
oats?" It has never been very clear to me why "oats" should be the grain
selected as emblematical of the dissipations and excesses of youth. They
constitute the food of the inhabitants of the poorest regions only, and
where the absence of all aid from climate and sunshine, renders almost
unceasing toil necessary, in order to obtain a meagre subsistence.

The "oat" appears to me so little the companion of luxury and pleasure,
that I am wholly at a loss to account for the origin of this phrase,
which is in the mouth of every one.

    BEAU NASH.

  Bath.

_The Dr. Richard Mortons._--I shall feel greatly indebted to any reader
of "N. & Q." who can give me some account of Dr. Richard Morton, a
celebrated physician of Greenwich, _temp._ William and Mary, and of his
son Dr. Richard Morton, who died in 1730. Were they descended from the
Mortons of Severn Stoke, co. Worcester? and what was the precise degree
of their relationship with the Mortons of Slaugham, co. Sussex?

    MARK ANTONY LOWER.

_General Lambert_ (Vol. iv., p. 339.).--A correspondent shows the
probability or certainty that the hitherto received opinion as to the
long confinement and death in Guernsey of this old parliamentary general
is not correct. But Mr. Hallam and others who report this, report also
that he was tried with Sir Harry Vane; and that his "submissive
behaviour" was such a contrast to that of his noble fellow-prisoner that
it perhaps influenced his sentence. Where is the proof of his behaviour
to be found? Vane's trial has been published separately. It is also in
the _State Trials_, with the trials of the regicides; but neither there
nor elsewhere can I find the trial of Lambert.

    G. L.

_Cross-legged Effigies and Collars of SS._--As some of your
correspondents are sending to "N. & Q." accounts of sepulchral effigies
bearing SS. collars, I should be obliged to them if they would mention
when such effigies are cross-legged. Does any effigy in this attitude
exist _bearing a date_ as late as 1350?

    W. H. K.

_The Crooked Billet._--Can any of your readers inform me whether there
be any legend connected with the "Crooked Billet," which is frequently
used in this neighbourhood as a sign to a village inn? The sign itself
is formed of a crooked piece of wood, or two or three pieces joined, and
suspended over the door of the public-house.

    T. D.

  Gainsbro'.

_Collins the Poet, and his Ode on the Music of the Grecian Theatre._--In
Seward's _Anecdotes of distinguished Persons_ there is a letter from
Collins to Dr. Hayes, professor of music, Oxford, in which, after
alluding to his "Ode on the Passions," he mentions another Ode, which
appears to have been actually written.

  "The subject," he states, "is _the Music of the Grecian Theatre_,
  in which," he goes on to say, "I have, I hope naturally,
  introduced the various characters with which the chorus was
  concerned, as Oedipus, Medea, Electra, Orestes, &c. &c. The
  composition too is probably more correct, as I have chosen the
  ancient tragedies for my models, and only copied the most
  affecting passages in them."

The letter is dated "Chichester, November 8, 1750." Collins died in
1756. The Ode is lost; but assuredly every effort should be made to
bring it to light.

    SMINTHEUS.

_Bishop Kidder's Autobiography._--In the _Lives of the Bishops of Bath
and Wells_, by the Rev. Stephen Hyde Cassan (Rivingtons, 1829), the
greater portion of the notice there given of that learned writer and
excellent divine, Richard Kidder, bishop of that see from 1691 to 1703,
is derived from an autobiographical memoir, of which Mr. Cassan says,
"the MS., one of undoubted authority, exists in original at Wells." The
reasonable inference from this statement would be, that the MS. is in
the Cathedral Library there; but from what I have recently been able to
ascertain, through the kindness of a gentleman at Wells, it would appear
that Kidder's autobiography is not in the Cathedral Library, nor in the
hands of any individual in that place or its neighbourhood: the
probability therefore is, that it is in some private collection; and as
I believe it contains many particulars connected with the bishop's
personal history, which Mr. Cassan has passed over, I shall be glad if
any of your readers can inform me where it is to be met with. The
bishop's birthplace has been left in some doubt; it has been stated that
he was born at Lewes, at Brighthelmstone, and in Suffolk; in the memoir
referred to, the question is set at rest, for he says that he was born
at East Grinstead, Sussex, in 1633. While upon this subject I would beg
information as to the name and family of the bishop's wife, who was
killed with him in the great storm of Nov. 1703. I learn from the
baptismal registers of their children that her christian name was
_Elizabeth_.

    JAS. CROSBY.

  Strantham.

_Shrine of Edward the Confessor._--Is there any print or drawing, or any
written description, which would show the condition of the _shrine of
King Edward the Confessor_ previously to the great Rebellion, or in any
way throw light upon the various changes, mutilations, and restorations
it has undergone, beyond such as is to be derived from the ordinary
histories of the abbey?

    GEO. S. SCOTT.

"_Wise above that which is written._"--Can any of your correspondents
inform me where the words originally occur, "Wise above that which is
written?" I was for a long time under the impression that they were
taken from one of St. Paul's Epistles, or at least were to be found
somewhere in the Bible; but, after having searched Cruden diligently,
though ineffectually, I am pretty sure they are not to be found in Holy
Writ.

I am convinced that most persons share in the opinion I formerly held,
and I have often seen them quoted in sermons just as if they were a
passage of Scripture, though, of course, without giving any reference.

    R. C. C.

  Oxon.

"_Hoffman_," _a Tragedy by Chettle._--Can any correspondent of the "N. &
Q." throw any light upon the source of the plot of _Hoffman, a Tragedy_,
by Henry Chettle, 4to. 1631? The scene is laid at Dantzig in Prussia;
the hero revenges his father's death, which was caused by the Duke of
Lüneburg and other princes, by means of a red-hot iron crown placed on
his head. He kills the son of the Duke of Lüneburg in the same manner,
and assumes his character; is adopted by the Duke of Prussia, and
avenges himself by the murder of the duke, and others of his father's
judges; is finally discovered, and put to death by means of the iron
crown.

I have in vain searched the German chronicle of the period: from the
geographical localities being well preserved, as well as the German
names (a peculiarity in the old drama), the presumption is, that it has
been taken from an historical source. Mention is made in Menzel's
_History of Germany_, of a Count Jordan who suffered death by means of
an iron crown; and in Goldsmith's _Traveller_, the line of--

      "Luke's iron crown and Damon's bed of steel,"

is illustrated by a note in Bohn's edition of that author, of two
brothers, George and Luke Leck, who had created a rebellion in Hungary,
and of one of them suffering death in this manner; but neither of these
two cases apply at all to the subject.

    H. B. L.

_Inverted Commas._--When were inverted commas first introduced to
indicate quotations in writing?

    S. W. RIX.

_Quotations Wanted._--If the subjoined Queries could be inserted
_early_, it would greatly oblige me. I want them for a work, of which
the first proofs are now before me.

I should be glad if any of the readers of "N. & Q." could refer me to
the precise places from whence the following quotations are made:--

  1. "Qui vult plenè et sapidè Christi verba intelligere, oportet ut
  totam vitam suam Illi studeat conformare."

  2. "Gaudium suum ob renascentes literas non sine metu exprimet,
  unus scrupulus habet animum meum, ne sub obtentu priscæ literaturæ
  caput erigere tentet paganismus.... Optarim frigidas istas
  argutias (humanæ eloquentiæ logicarumque subtilitatum) amputari
  prorsus, Christumque illum simplicem et purum restitui, penitusque
  humanis mentibus inseri."

  _Erasmus._ Query--where?

  3. "Cujus vita despicitur, restat ut ejus prædicatio contemnatur."

  _S. Gregory._

    W. D--N.

_Deacons, a Phrase used by Foxe._--In the martyrology of John Foxe we
read--

  "King Edward died, the world being unworthy of him: the Duke of
  Northumberland came down to Cambridge with an army of men, having
  commission to proclaim Lady Jane queen.... The duke sent for
  Doctor Sandys, being vice-chancellor, for Doctor Parker, for
  Doctor Bill, and Master Leaver to sup with him. Amongst other
  speeches he said, Masters, pray for us, that we speed well; if
  not, you shall be made bishops, and we deacons. And even so it
  came to pass: Doctor Parker and Doctor Sandys were made bishops;
  and he and Sir John Gates, who were then at the table, were made
  deacons, ere it was long after, on the Tower-hill."

I should be glad to know the allusion here, and how men who were
executed could be said to be thereby made deacons.

    W. D--N.

_The Count de Vordac._--When did the Count de Vordac, a general in the
army of the Emperor of Germany, die? His memoirs are scarce; the copy
which I have is reprinted at Paris in 1709. He was an Italian, bred for
the church, which he relinquished for the profession of arms. He was
born about 1660; his memoirs break off abruptly in 1695 when in midlife,
and he was serving under our William III. He closes his memoirs with an
account of his being at the siege of Namur, which he says cost his own
party dear, and himself more particularly. It is very probable he fell
at this siege if he continued his narrative while in the camp. His
memoirs are curious and very entertaining. I find there that he was much
esteemed at Vienna, and his conduct in rescuing the wife of one of the
German nobility from a horrible imprisonment with the corpse of the man
of whom her lord was jealous, is full of interest as well as horror,
from the mode in which it was accomplished. He was personally acquainted
with William III., who entrusted him with important commands. His
narrative makes the reader anxious to know something of his subsequent
history, if he were not a victim to the sword before the close of the
war of which he spoke.

    CYRUS REDDING.


Minor Queries Answered.

_Hoare's Charity._--Inside the cover of a copy of _The Whole Duty of
Man_ (8vo., London, 1727, John Baskett) now before me, is pasted a slip
of paper, containing a coat of arms, "Sable, a double eagle expanded or
(?) in a bordure argent," surrounded by mantling, and surmounted by
helmet and crest; below this is the following:--

  "The gift of HENRY HOARE, Esq., who died March 12, 1724-5, aged
  forty-seven, and by his last Will and Testament hath vested the
  su[=m]e of two thousand pounds in trustees, who are to apply the
  yearly interest, rents, and profits arising out of the said
  su[=m]e to the purchasing, dispensing, and giving away, yearly,
  Bibles, Common Prayer-Books, and such other books as are intirely
  agreeable to the principles and doctrine of the Church of England,
  as now by law established, and most conducive to the advancement
  of Christian faith and piety in the world."

I shall be glad to learn whether this charity is still bestowed, and
where: any particulars relative to the original donor will be
acceptable. Permit me to add the Query,--Is mine the first edition of
_The Whole Duty of Man_? if not, when was it first published, and who
was the author?

    W. SPARROW SIMPSON, B.A.

  [Mr. Henry Hoare was a son of Sir Richard Hoare, Lord Mayor of
  London, and an intimate friend of that worthy man, Robert Nelson,
  author of the _Companion for the Festivals and Fasts of the Church
  of England_; a work which Dr. Johnson recommends as being a most
  valuable help to devotion, and as having had the greatest sale of
  any book ever printed in England, except the Bible. Mr. Hoare's
  name occurs in several parts of Robert Nelson's will, viz. "I give
  and bequeath to Mr. Henry Hoare, of London, goldsmith, one of my
  executors, 200_l._, upon trust to distribute 100_l._, part
  thereof, in such manner as shall be directed by the Society for
  Promoting Christian Knowledge; and the other 100_l._ to be
  employed by him in promoting parochial libraries.... I give and
  bequeath to Mrs. Jane Hoare, wife of the said Mr. Henry Hoare, two
  pair of little silver candlesticks for her closet." It is also
  worthy a note in our pages that the first legacy received by the
  Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge was that of Robert
  Nelson's, which is thus entered on the minutes of the
  Society:--"3d Feb. 1714-15. Mr. Hoare reported, that Mr. Nelson,
  lately deceased, had ordered him by his will, as one of his
  executors, to pay 100_l._ to the Society for promoting their
  designs; and also 50_l._ towards supporting the charity-school at
  St. George's Chapel." The name of Mr. Henry Hoare occurs among the
  list of subscribers in the first volume of Jeremy Collier's
  _Ecclesiastical History_, fol. 1708; and some of his letters to
  John Strype, the historian, will be found among the Additional
  MSS. in the British Museum, No. 5853. No biographical notice of
  Mr. Henry Hoare appears to have been preserved. See Herbert's
  _History of the Twelve Great Livery Companies_, vol. ii. p. 285.,
  for a notice of his gift to the Goldsmiths' Company.

  The first edition of _The Whole Duty of Man_ was published in
  1657. Like the enigmatical Junius, its authorship still remains a
  problem; but we believe it is now generally supposed to be written
  either by Lady Packington or Archbishop Sterne. Our correspondent
  will find the question discussed in the Rev. W. B. Hawkins's
  Introduction to Pickering's edition of this work, published in
  1842; as well as in the valuable communication of J. E. B. Mayor,
  Esq., of Marlborough College, in our second volume, p. 292.]

_Dr. Sacheverell's "Sermon at Derby."_--Can any of your correspondents
furnish me with information as to the various editions which were
published of Dr. Henry Sacheverell's _Sermon at Derby_ in 1709? I am
anxious to ascertain how many editions were issued, with their dates and
other particulars.

    L. J.

  [We think our correspondent will not be able to obtain the
  information he requires, owing to the great demand at the time for
  the two Sermons for which the Doctor was prosecuted. Mr. Lathbury
  states (_History of the Nonjurors_, p. 237) that "of the Sermon
  'Perils among False Brethren,' no less than forty thousand copies
  were sold in a few weeks." We have also now before us two copies
  of the Derby Sermon, both printed in 1709, 8vo., but no intimation
  on the title-page of their being different editions, which they
  evidently are, on an examination of their typographical
  composition. The Bodleian contains a quarto edition of the latter
  Sermon, 1710.]

_Lucas Lossius._--I have an old 12mo. volume with the following
title-page:

  "Annotationes Scholasticæ _in Evangelia Dominicalia et_ ea quæ in
  Festis IESV CHRISTI, et Sanctorum ejus præcipuis, leguntur in
  Ecclesia, _per totius Anni circulum_: non inutile futuræ
  puerilibus Scholis.

  "_His adjectæ sunt in singula Evangelia Disticha, Argumenta,
  Doctrinæ Summariæ, Loci et_ _Ob_jectiones præterea, cum brevibus
  ac veris earum solutionibus Dialecticis, exercendæ adolescentiæ
  causa.

  "_Collecta et dictata à Luca Lossio, in Schola Lunæburgensi._

      "(*) [right pointing hand symbol] (*)

  "Adiecimus et iam recens erudita Evangeliorum Dominicalium et
  Festivalium Disticha, inundæ memoriæ causa, à Vuendelino Helbachio
  conscripta.

      "(*)

      "_Franc. Apud Hæred. Christ. Egen._
      M.D.LXXVIII."

The words, and parts of words, in Italics are rubricated.

As I live at a distance from any large library, and have consulted in
vain such biographical works as my own scanty shelves afford, I shall be
greatly obliged to any of your correspondents who have access to our
public libraries, to inform me who Lucas Lossius was, and where any
account of him may be met with? Also, who Wendelinus Helbachius,
Stigelius, and Bernardus Bomgardius were, whose "Disticha" are
interspersed throughout the volume? In the "Epistola Nuncupatoria"
mention is made of "Joannis Stigelij, Poetæ clarissimi, nostra ætate,"
and of "M. Bernardi Bomgardij, Ludimoderatoris Vlzeniani;" but I cannot
find any account of these worthies.

I ought to add that each Sunday or Saint's Day is preceded by a curious
woodcut representing the subject of which the Gospel treats.

    R. BN.

  [Lucas Lossius, of Lunenburg, was a Lutheran divine and
  schoolmaster, well skilled in music, who published at Nuremberg,
  in 1553, _Erotemata Musicæ practicæ_, and together with
  Melancthon, the Lutheran ritual, _Psalmodia, seu Cantica sacra
  veteris ecclesiæ selecta_. At the period of the Reformation, the
  Lutherans preserved more of the ancient hymns and music of the
  church in their services than the Calvinists. Some account of
  Lossius is given in Hawkins's _History of Music_, vol. iii. p.
  102. There is an edition of _Annotationes Scholasticæ_, with the
  curious woodcuts printed in the year 1560, at Leipsic.]

_The "Athenian Oracle."_--Can you inform me who were the authors of the
"Athenian Oracle," or, in other words, the members of the "Learned
Society" who conducted this work? You may feel some interest in it as a
kind of prototype and progenitor of your own "N. & Q." Your work, as I
apprehend, does not profess to solve and answer so many nice puzzling
points in divinity, philosophy, love, &c., as that of the _Oracle_,
which furnishes us with a curious picture of the wants, opinions, and
manners of the age in which it appeared; but _yours_, though neither
dipping so deeply nor ranging so widely, ought to be highly prized as
the exponent of the demands of our times more improved, enlightened, and
not less inquisitive, and as affording to some of your correspondents
far from the great metropolis of letters, a ready channel for
information, much to their instruction and pleasure. Pardoning this
digression, the copy of the _Athenian Oracle_ I possess is in 3 vols.
8vo., purporting to be an entire collection of all the valuable
questions and answers in the old Athenian Mercuries, &c., by a member of
the Athenian Society; London, printed for Andrew Bell at the Cross Keys
and Bible in Cornhill, near Stocks Market, the second volume 1703, the
first and third 1704. The copy bears an autograph on the fly-leaf; "Ex
Libris Thomas Browne, Ex Dono plurim; M'ri Guil Carstairs Acad.
Edinburg. primarij professoris Cui omnia (two words obscure) Ed. Nov.
23, 1706." The historical celebrity of Carstairs is a _small feather in
the cap_ of the copy, but unimportant to some farther knowledge from you
of the book and its authors, the former having often supplied much
rational fireside entertainment.

    N.

  Glasgow.

  [_The Athenian Gazette_, afterwards called _The Athenian Mercury_,
  swelled at last to twenty volumes folio; these becoming scarce, a
  collection of the most valuable questions and answers was
  reprinted under the title of _The Athenian Oracle_, in 4 vols.
  8vo. The fourth volume contains a Supplement, to which is prefixed
  "The History of the Athenian Society," and an "Essay upon
  Learning." It was projected by the celebrated John Dunton, who
  says, "My first project was the _Athenian Gazette_. As the
  Athenian Society had their first meeting in my brain, so it has
  been kept ever since religiously secret: but I will now oblige the
  reader with a true discovery of the _question-project_, and of the
  several persons that engaged in it." These were his
  brother-in-law, the Rev. Samuel Wesley and Mr. Richard Sault, who
  were occasionally assisted by Dr. Norris. The work was also
  countenanced by several of the most eminent writers of the age;
  and was honoured in particular with a commendatory poem by Swift.
  Some curious notices respecting Dunton and his numerous literary
  projects will be found in the _Life and Errors of John Dunton_, 2
  vols. 8vo., 1818; and in Nichols' _Literary Anecdotes_, vol. v.
  pp. 59-83.]




Replies.


FRENCH REVOLUTIONS FORETOLD.

(Vol. v., p. 100.)

A remarkable instance of foresight relative to the fate of some of the
French sovereigns appears in an epistle of Erasmus to King Francis I.:

  "Prætexunt fidei titulum, sed revera aliud agunt; moliuntur
  tyrannidem, etiam in capita Principum. Huc tendunt per cuniculos.
  Nisi Princeps ipsorum voluntati per omnia paruerit, dicetur fautor
  Hæreticorum; et destitui poterit per Ecclesiam; hoc est, per
  aliquos conjuratos Pseudomonachos et Pseudotheologos."

Richer, Doctor of the Sorbonne, after having alluded to this passage,
uses the following very striking language:

  "Cæterum regno Franciæ his artibus everso, (quod omen Deus
  avertat,) reliquis Monarchiis Christianis quæ supererunt eadem
  manet pestis; ut prophetia Apostoli, _de iniquitatis mysterio_, et
  politicarum Potestatum ruina atque interitu, complementum
  sortiatur; cujus pestis et ruinæ complementum in dies singulos
  Bullæ Coenæ Domini et Directorii Inquisitorum arcanis promovetur.
  _Tumque demum, in fine sæculorum, seditiones, conspirationes, et
  bella plusquam civilia fervebunt, propter Potestatum sæculi
  exarmatorum imbecillitatem atque impotentiam; quæ nec sibi ipsis,
  nec aliis, sufficienter consulere poterunt; quia omnes imperare,
  et nemo parere volet_: quibus de bellis consule caput 24.
  Matthæi."

  _Apologia pro Joanne Gersonio_, pp. 203-4. Lugd. Bat. 1676.

    R. G.


GRIMESDYKE.

(Vol. iv. _passim._)

NAUTICUS is informed that in Norfolk one of the hundreds, or
subdivisions of the county, is called _Grimshoo_ or _Grimshow_, after
(as it is supposed) a Danish leader of the name of _Grime_ or _Gryme_.
He was undoubtedly either _Præsitus Comitatus_ or _Centuriæ Præpositus_
of that part of the country, and gave his name to the hundred as
hundred-greeve, which name it still retains. In about the centre of this
hundred is a very curious Danish encampment, in a semicircular form,
consisting of about twelve acres.

In this space are a great number of large deep pits, joined in a regular
manner, one near to another, in form of a quincunx, the largest in the
centre, where the general's or commander's tent was placed. These pits
are so deep and numerous as to be able to conceal a very great army. At
the east end of this entrenchment is a large tumulus, pointing towards
Thetford, from which it is about five or six miles distant; and which
might possibly have served as a watch tower, or place of signal: and
here the hundred court used to be called. This place also is known by
the name of _The Holes_, or _Grimes-graves_. This part of the country,
being open, was a great seat of war between the Saxons and Danes, as
appears from many tumuli throughout this hundred, erected over the
graves of leaders who fell in battle; or as tokens of victory, to show
how far they had led their armies and conquered.--See _Blomfield_ in
loco.

    J. F. F.

  West Newton.

To the various instances already recorded in "N. & Q.," of ancient
earthworks having received the name "Grimesdyke," the following may be
added.

One on Cranbourne Chase, Dorset; three in Berkshire, viz., one near
Silchester, one near Oare, where also are Grimsbury, and Grimsbury
Forest; another, intersected by the Thames, near Wallingford; another
near Witney, Oxfordshire.

The great fossa and vallum of Lollius Urbicus in Scotland, is called
Graham's and Grime's Dyke. The frequency of its application to various
earthworks in such distant parts of the kingdom may perhaps be
considered sufficient evidence that the name is not derived from that of
any landed proprietor, as suggested by one of your correspondents. I
have no doubt the derivation suggested by your first correspondent,
NAUTICUS, is the true one, viz., that it is of Saxon origin, signifying
Wizard, or the Evil Spirit, which indicates, not only that these
earthworks were in existence in Saxon times, but that their origin was
even then so remote and mysterious that they were supposed to be the
work of supernatural agency. Grimesdyke, described by NAUTICUS as
beginning near Berkhamsted, Herts (not Hants, as misprinted in "N. &
Q."), and running across the Chiltern hills, is mentioned, _temp._ Henry
III., in a charter of Edmund, Earl of Cornwall, granting Ashridge to the
fraternity of the Bonhommes:

      "Usque ad quoddam fossatum quod dicitur Grymesdich."

If this should meet the eyes of my friend NAUTICUS, wherever in the
broad seas he may happen to be, he will be glad to hear that this
extensive earthwork of antiquity is now undergoing the investigation of
an Archæological Society, of which he is an esteemed member. I may
further remark that the family name of Grimesdike is doubtless from some
ancient place so named, and not these several places from the family.
The armorial bearings of the family would at once suggest this
conclusion. I have not found the name given to any ancient work in
Wales, which of course would not be the case, if it be of Saxon origin.

    W. H. K.


POET REFERRED TO BY BACON.

(Vol. iv., p. 257.)

The poet referred to by Bacon is not the author of the _Mirror for
Magistrates_, but ARIOSTO, whose _Orlando Furioso_ was then popular in
the recent translation of Sir John Harrington. The allegory will be
found at the close of the thirty-fourth and commencement of the
thirty-fifth books:

      "Further, the Duke did in that place behold,
      That when the threads were spent that had been spun,
      Their names in brass, in silver, or in gold,
      Were wrote, and so into great heaps were done;
      From which a man that seemed wondrous old,
      With whole loads of these names away did run,
      And turn'd again us fast, the way he went,
      Nor e'er weary was, nor ever spent.

      "A heap of names within his cloak he bore,
      And in the river did them all unlade;
      Or, to say truth, away he cast them all
      Into the stream which Lethe we do call.

      "He hurl'd therein full many a precious name,
      Where millions soon into the bottom sank,
      Hardly in every thousand one was found,
      That was not in the gulf quite lost and drown'd.

      "Yet all about great store of birds there flew
      As vulture, carrion crows, and chatt'ring pyes,
      And many more of sundry kind and hue,
      Making lewd harmony with their loud cries;
      These when the careless wretch the treasure threw
      Into that stream, did all they could devise,
      What with their talons some, and some with beak,
      To save some names, but find themselves too weak.

      "Only two swans sustain'd so great a poise,
      In spite of him that sought them all to drown,
      These two do still take up the names they list,
      And bare them safe away, and never misst.

      "They caught them ere they to the stream arriv'd,
      Then went they, with the names they had recover'd,
      Up to a hill, that stood the water nigh,
      On which a stately church was builded high.

      "This place is sacred to immortal Fame,
      And evermore a nymph stood at the gate
      And took the names ... ...
      Then all about the church she hang'd the same
      Before the sacred image, in such rate
      As they might then well be assur'd for ever,
      Spite of that wretch, in safety to persever.

      "But as the swans that there still flying are,
      With written names, unto that sacred port,
      So here Historians learn'd, and Poets rare,
      Preserve then in clear fame and good report."

    S. W. SINGER.


JOHNSON'S HOUSE, BOLT COURT.

(Vol. v., p. 176.)

A correspondent discussing the question of the site, or of the continued
existence, of the house in Bolt Court in which Johnson lived and died,
mentions that one person now living called there during the last illness
of our sublime moralist. I believe he refers to Mr. Rogers.

The fact is that there is also a lady, an inhabitant of Piccadilly,
Viscountess Keith, who not only grew from childhood to the age of twenty
in the constant association of the Doctor, but who is also mentioned by
Madame D'Arblay as having been a visitor at Bolt Court in 1784. Whether
the noble lady referred to, at the extraordinary age she has reached
(she was the eldest Miss Thrale), could solve from memory your friend's
doubts as to this classical locality, I know not.

    M. A.

I am in a position to assure MR. EDWIN LECHLADE that Dr. Johnson's house
was burnt down in 1819, the premises having been long previously
occupied by the most eminent English printer of his own or any other
time, Mr. Thomas Bensley, to whose energy the world is indebted for the
perfection of the printing machine.

The house of Johnson's friend, Mr. Allen the printer, was not destroyed
by the disastrous fire which reduced to ashes the Doctor's residence;
indeed only one corner of it was injured; and, with that exception, it
stands as it was built shortly after the Great Fire of London.

Mr. Allen's house stands at the head of Bolt Court; Dr. Johnson's stood
to its left. On the site of the latter was erected, after the
before-mentioned fire, a spacious printing-office, and both are now in
the occupation of Mr. Tyler.

The _Gentleman's Magazine_ (1819, part i., p. 575.), in giving an
account of this fire, says in a note:

  "It may be interesting to some of our readers to know that the
  house in Bolt Court, formerly the residence of Dr. Johnson, formed
  part of Mr. Bensley's office, and is now entirely destroyed. A
  view of it is preserved in the _European Magazine_ for 1810."

The _European Magazine_ (1810, vol. lvii. pp. 353-4.) contains, besides
the view above-mentioned, an article to which your correspondent may be
referred, in confirmation of the fact that the house occupied by Dr.
Johnson was the one I have referred to, and was not exactly opposite the
"Dr. Johnson tavern." The view, I am told by one who well recollects the
old house, and is a great lover of Johnsoniana, is a correct
representation of it.

Timperley's _Dictionary of Printers and Printing_, also, in relating the
occurrence of the fire of Messrs. Bensley's premises, states that a part
of it was formerly the residence of Dr. Johnson.

    TEE BEE.

In answer to the Query of EDWIN LECHLADE, being in a position to give
you unquestionable information, I will, to quote your correspondent's
words, let the question be set at rest. Of the house in which Dr.
Johnson lived and died, not one brick is left upon another. It was
destroyed totally by fire in 1819; and the partywall between that and
Mr. Allen's house alone remains, being the west wall of that large
residence. When up Bolt Court, you turn to the left through an iron gate
leading to a flight of stone steps to the printing-office now occupied
by Mr. Tyler, and _where those stone steps are_, stood the doctor's
residence. I know of no relic that was saved except the _scraper_, which
was distorted into a curious shape by the action of the fire, and being
firmly fixed in a heavy stone, it lay about the yard for years.

The late well-known printer Mr. Bensley succeeded Mr. Allen there in
business in 1783, going at once to reside in his house _next door_ to
Dr. Johnson, whom, of course, as a close neighbour, he often saw, and
whose funeral he witnessed. After the Doctor's death the
Rev.--Stockdale, of the Church of England, occupied the house; next to
him it was tenanted by a Rev.--Moir, (I believe) a Presbyterian; next,
by one Copley, an old tailor, whom I have teased many times when a boy;
for some of us youngsters having overheard him once in a soliloquy
groaning, "Dear me--and the buttons all wrong!" on passing him it became
a _mot_ among us expressed sufficiently loud to reach his ears, when he
would look unutterable things. He was a worthy but somewhat cross old
man, in very respectable circumstances. His was the last family which
ever occupied the premises as a dwelling-house; I knew him there for
about twenty years. During his abode the freehold was put up for sale by
auction, as well as of Allen's house; Mr. Bensley purchased both. This
was somewhere about 1804-1807. But as Copley had a lease, he did not
vacate till about 1814, when Mr. Bensley appropriated the two houses to
his printing purposes (and there, it may not be unworthy of notice, was
steam-printing first practised),--so occupied the said premises were,
till destroyed by fire in 1819. Mr. Bensley's eldest surviving son
succeeded him in 1820, but did not, in re-constructing the premises,
build on the site of Dr. Johnson's house, though _a part_ thereof has
since been covered. The map--a very fragile, worm-eaten affair--shows
the exact dimensions of the house, the place where the walls stood, &c.
The property remains in Mr. Bensley's family. I have often heard Mr.
Bensley describe the Doctor and his funeral.

The print in the _European Magazine_ is an accurate representation of
the appearance of this ancient and gloomy house in the dark corner; but
it had many comforts, and "a large garden," in which I have been; it is
now all built upon, and has been covered for nearly half a century. Some
yet living may have visited Dr. Johnson there: I have often conversed
with others who are dead that did--the late Mr. Bowyer Nichols, Mr.
Cradock (of Leicestershire), Mr. A. Strahan, and others mentioned in the
Doctor's works, when gratifying their curiosity by showing them over the
house; and it has fallen to my lot to do so to many literary characters.
Indeed as to the place where Dr. Johnson lived and died, there is no
more room for doubt than as to where old London bridge stood. I have
many times been with the late Mr. James Boswell (son of Dr. Johnson's
biographer) in the rather dismal parlour--which spot, it is not to be
wondered at, had a peculiar attraction for _him_.

There is _no_ kind of foundation for assigning Dr. Johnson's residence
to that where Cobbett lived or wrote--it was a mere joke. As to the
"Johnson's Head" tavern, it was an upholsterer's manufactory at the time
of Dr. Johnson's death. I myself knew an old man of the name of _Hale_
residing in it, and carrying on that occupation so early as 1800, who
had doubtless been there before Dr. Johnson's death; his son followed
him, and continued till about 1826-1830 in those premises. By the same
token (as Paddy says), while now addressing "N. & Q." (though nearly 300
miles from the spot) I am writing at a table Hale sen. made for me in
that house in 1818.

The greater part of Mr. Bensley's extensive premises was _twice_ burned
down; but on neither occasion was Allen's house destroyed. It yet
stands, though so altered and improved as not to resemble the original
edifice. Mr. Tyler's counting-house, by the iron gate at the S. W.
corner, however, is left just as used by Allen (except a passage cut off
at the end), the panelling, &c., just the same, being the _only_ part
remaining unaltered: there was then, of course, no door out to the stone
steps, as there stood Dr. Johnson's parlour. In this counting-house, no
doubt, Dr. Johnson often was; and in the adjoining parlour he often fed.
It was a very old-fashioned room, as I well remember it upwards of half
a century ago. His better parlour, or drawing-room, was large and
handsomely furnished for the period, with three windows, and two ancient
pier-glasses fixed to tables, gilt and adorned according to the taste of
the times. Mr. Bensley bought these and a few other household matters,
which remained _in statu quo_ till 1805-1808.

I have seen some prints of the inside of Dr. Johnson's house, which do
not give a very accurate idea of the appearance of the rooms, &c.; but,
I repeat it, the view of the front in the _European Magazine_ is
excellent.

The celebrity of Dr. Johnson may induce you to insert this, which,
without that influence, I am aware would be too tedious.

    B. B.


COOPER'S MINIATURE OF CROMWELL.

(Vol. iv., p. 368.; Vol. v., p. 189. &c.)

It is only within a few months that the existence of the "N. & Q."
became known to me. It seemed likely to be such an useful and amusing
publication, from the description I received of it from a literary
friend (now appointed vice-consul to the Isle of Mytilene), that I lost
no time in becoming a subscriber; and I am rejoiced to add, that my
expectations have not been disappointed, though I have not had time to
read the Notes or attend to the Queries as fully as I could have wished
till very lately.

However, I have now observed amongst the Replies, Vol. v., p. 189., a
Note relating to the miniature of Cromwell by Cooper, with several
references to other Notes and Queries upon the same subject, originating
with a Query from LORD BRAYBROOKE in Vol. iv., p. 368. If the following
appears to you worthy of insertion, pray use it.

I have a beautiful miniature of Oliver Cromwell, painted with very great
care, and which has every appearance of being an original by Cooper. I
remember it all my life in my father's (Lord Holland's) room at Holland
House; and on his death in 1840, it was left by him to his friend and
mine, John Allen, late master of Dulwich College, who died in 1843, and
left it with his books to me.

Cromwell is painted in armour, with a remarkably clean, plain,
turned-down shirt collar; his usual countenance, somewhat stern, but
full of the expression of good sense and intelligence; reddish hair, and
a small portion of it under the lower lip. On the back is written in my
father's handwriting:

  "This miniature was given to me when at school by Lady Diana
  Beauclerk, who assured me that it was an original by Cooper, and
  that it had been long in the possession of the Beauclerk family,
  who had it from Charles II. (Signed) VASSALL HOLLAND."

Lady D. Beauclerk, herself distinguished as an artist, was the daughter
of the Duke of St. Albans, a lineal descendant of Charles II.

There is an engraving from a miniature of Cromwell in Carlyle's life of
him, said to be in the possession of Archdeacon Berners, which I believe
to be also by Cooper. It is larger than mine, and even better painted. I
have seen it, but cannot recollect where or when.

    C. FOX, MAJOR-GENERAL.

  Addison Road.

P.S.--I have left my miniature with my friend Mr. Domenic Colnaghi at
Pall Mall East, for the inspection of any of your correspondents. It
will be there till the _31st March_.


THE QUEEN OF THE ISLE OF MAN.

(Vol. v., p. 132.)

In an interesting communication from MR. WM. SIDNEY GIBSON in a late
Number of your publication there occurs the following statement, to
which I beg to add a few remarks. He says:

  "After the death of Magnus, the island was seized by Alexander
  III. of Scotland. A daughter and heiress of Reginald sued for it
  against John Baliol, before Edward I. of England, as lord
  paramount of Man.

  "_Rot. Parl._, 31 Edw. I."

And farther on he states:

  "From sundry records it appears that Edward II. and Edward III.
  committed its custody to various persons, and the latter at length
  conferred his right to it upon William Montacute, Earl of
  Salisbury, in consideration, probably, of that valiant earl having
  by his arms regained the island from the Scots, who had resumed
  possession, and of the circumstance that his grandmother, the wife
  of Simon de Montacute, was sister and heiress of one of the former
  kings of Man, and related to the lady who had claimed it as her
  inheritance on the death of Magnus."

Now, I think MR. GIBSON, on reflection, will agree with me in concluding
that the wife of Simon de Montacute, and the lady who claimed the island
on the death of Magnus, were one and the same person. There is no
document, I believe, of the kind he refers to, of the "31st" of Edw. I.;
but in the "21st" of Edw. I., which date is probably intended, there is
amongst the Scotch Rolls (anno 21 Edw. I. m. 4.) a citation from Edward
I., as supreme lord of Scotland, directed to John Baliol, King of Scots,
to answer the complaint of _Aufrica_, cousin and heiress of Magnus, late
King of Man, &c. This is in the year 1292-3; and a few years later we
again meet with _Aufrica_, for amongst the ancient charters in the
British Museum is one marked "V. 73." It is a deed by which "_Aufrica_,
heiress of the land of Man," gives up her right therein "to her noble
and potent husband, Simon de Montagu." This deed is dated at
Bridgewater, on Thursday the Vigil of the Annunciation, 1305; _i.e._
March 24, 1306.

In this charter (V. 73.) she calls herself _Aufrica de Connought_: and
this is rather curious, for in a volume of pedigrees in the British
Museum, in the handwriting of Robert Glover, Somerset Herald (Bib. Harl.
807.), she is said to be the daughter of Fergus, Lord of Galloway
(Galway?), and Queen of Man. _Galway_ it is in another MS. in the same
collection (MSS. Harl. 1074. folio 22.), where she is styled "Aufrica,
Reyne de Man," and daughter of Fergus, Lord of Galway. In both these
MSS. she is said to be the wife of Simon de Montagu, who is styled "Roy
de Man par sa femme."

    F. C. M.


Replies to Minor Queries.

_Old Scots March_ (Vol. v., p. 104.).--The following quotation from a
"Dissertation on Scottish Music," by Mr. Tytler, of Woodhouselee (the
grandfather of the historian), contained in the _Transactions of the
Society of Scottish Antiquaries_, vol. i. p. 486., although not an
answer to his Query, may perhaps prove interesting to J.M.:--

  "To the wandering harpers we are certainly indebted for that
  species of music which is now scarcely known, I mean _the Port_.
  Almost every great family had a _Port_ that went by the name of
  the family. Of the few that are still preserved are, _Port
  Lennox_, _Port Gordon_, _Port Seton_, and _Port Athole_, which are
  all of them excellent in their kind. The _Port_ is not of the
  martial strain of the _march_, as some have conjectured; those
  above named being all in the plaintive strain, and modulated for
  the harp.

  "The _pibroch_, the march or battle-tune of the _Highland clans_,
  with the different strains introduced of the _coronich_, &c., is
  fitted for the _bagpipe_ only: its measure, in the _pas grave_ of
  the _Highland piper_, equipped with his flag and military ensigns,
  when marching up to battle, is stately and animating, rising often
  to a degree of fury."

Although anxious to do so, I have never yet been able to meet with any
of the _ports_ here referred to.

    E. N.

_Elizabeth, Equestrian Figure of_ (Vol. iv., p. 231.).--The "unnatural
gait" which MR. LAWRENCE inquires about, is known in Spain as the "paso
Castiliano;" and supplies the place of the more familiar trot, which the
Spanish horses are rarely broken into.

I did not see the piece of plate alluded to, but probably the horse was
a Spanish (Andalusian) jennet, which would account for the peculiarity
of the pace. I cannot explain how this step is taught, but Spanish
horses fall into it at once on being touched with the spur, and
simultaneously curbed; and they perform long journeys thus, at the rate
of five miles an hour, with little fatigue to themselves or their
riders. Does not the dromedary also _pace_ in the same way?

    G. W. T.

_Meaning of Stickle_ (Vol. iv., p. 209.).--MR. RELTON'S supposition that
the word _stickle_ is used for a _pool_, is at variance with the common
usage of the word in Devonshire, where only I have met with it. It is
there used to describe the shallow swift running water immediately below
a pool. It is thus equivalent to the word _rapids_. It is by no means
obsolete, or a mere technical term of the "patient anglers." The
opposition in the line quoted, "Near to some _stickle_ or _deep_ bay,"
would alone have been a good reason to doubt whether it could be the
same as _pool_.

    G. W. T.

_Latin Names of Towns_ (Vol. i., pp. 287. 402. 474.).--There is a class
of persons who ought to be contributors to (*?) (I like the idea of a
recent correspondent better than "N. & Q." with its marks of quotation)
to a much larger extent than is the case. I mean those who having asked
questions, and profited by the answer, find additional answer, or better
answer, by their subsequent researches. As one of these, in reference to
my Query about Latin names of towns in Vol. i., I mention the list given
in Riccioli's _Geographia et Hydrographiæ Reformatæ_, of which the first
edition was licensed in 1658 (I don't know where it was printed), and
the record is of Venice, folio, 1672. This work contains, from more than
250 authors whose names are given, more than 8500 Latin names rendered
into vernacular, and a much larger number reversely given.

    M.

_Llandudno, on the Great Orme's Head_ (Vol. v., p. 175.).--L. G. T. will
find, in _Wanderings in North Wales_, by William Cathrall, published by
W.S. Orr and Co., the following answer to his Query:--

  "There are several copper mines conducted here with great success.
  In October, 1849, the miners in the course of their labours, broke
  into an immense cavern, the roof of which, being one mass of
  stalactite, reflected back their lights with dazzling splendour.
  On examination the work turned out to be an ancient work, probably
  Roman, the benches, stone hammers, &c. used by that ancient
  people, having been found entire, together with many bones of
  mutton. The bones were to all appearance as fresh, though
  impregnated with copper, as they were when denuded of their fleshy
  covering, after remaining, as they must have done, nearly 2000
  years in the bowels of the earth. The cavern is about forty yards
  long."

The date of the cavern is, therefore, long anterior to the Catholic
times.

    WM. DURRANT COOPER.

_Brozier_ (Vol. ii., p. 44.).--An Essex clergyman, who agrees with MR.
GATTY in deriving the word from the Greek verb Βρωσκω, to
devour, or eat like a beast, observes, that we still describe that act
when we speak of "the _browsing_ cattle." He also mentions that when he
was at Westminster, the word was there used in the same sense as at
Eton, and he well recollects one of his schoolfellows _broziered_ to
such an extent that his life was despaired of.

    BRAYBROOKE.

_Passage in Troilus and Cressida_ (Vol. v., p. 178.).--In reply to your
correspondent W. S. D. I have only to say, that my folio of 1632, with
early manuscript emendations, does not contain any alteration of the
line in _Troilus and Cressida_, Act I. Sc. 3.:

      "Peaceful commerce from dividable shores;"

which seems to me quite intelligible without any change. In the next
line it reads "primogeniture" for "primogeni_tive_", and as I apprehend
rightly, the concluding syllable _tive_ having been caught by the
compositor from "prerogative," the first word in the line immediately
below it.

I may take this opportunity of saying that no play in my volume is more
patiently corrected than _Troilus and Cressida_; and that in a preceding
speech by Nestor it confirms a correction by Theobald in the first
line--god_like_ for "godly;" and by Sir Thomas Hanmer in the last
line--_replies_ for "retires." Malone printed _returns_ after Pope,
which answers the sense very well, but is hardly so probable a misprint.
I am sorry to say that I thought otherwise when I published my
Shakspeare; and I never can sufficiently regret that this corrected copy
of the second folio did not fall into my hands until some years after I
had completed that undertaking.

    J. PAYNE COLLIER.

_Nelson Family_ (Vol. v., p. 176.).--If FRANCISCUS will refer to the
pedigree of the Nelson family, in Hoare's _History of Modern Wiltshire_
(Downton Hundred), he will find that _William Nelson_, who settled at
Dunham parva in Norfolk, and who was the great-grandfather of the naval
hero, was the son of _Edmund_ Nelson of Scarning, in the same county,
and grandson of _Thomas_ of the same place, which Thomas, according to
the same pedigree, was the son of another William, who is stated to have
been a Nelson of Mandesley, the same family from which the Chuddleworth
Nelsons are derived in Burke's account. I have tested the general
accuracy of this pedigree, which was, I believe, compiled by Mr. Matcham
from the parochial registers, but I much doubt the assumed descent from
the Mandesley family, as I find Nelsons inhabiting the neighbourhood of
Scarning at a period prior to the supposed migration.

    G. A. C.

_Maps of Africa_ (Vol. v., p. 174.).--I have been intending for some
time to write to you on the same subject as _Paterfamiliæ_, but the
Christian grace of laziness has been too strong for me. _Paterfamiliæ_,
however, has aroused me. My case is this: five years ago I commenced a
map, for my own use, of the shores of the Mediterranean, and such
countries as received Christianity up to the period of the Council of
Nice; and I had a hope of eventually being able to carry out the plan
suggested by DR. MAITLAND, in his work on the Dark Ages, and an
intention of making mysterious marks to indicate the scene of any great
persecution, remarkable synod, or other notable event. Well! I got on
very well, by the help of Kiepert and Cramer, through Greece, Asia
Minor, and Italy. Indeed, I managed to be content with all my sources,
as far as Europe was concerned; but when I had advanced as far as North
Africa, I came to a dead stop. There really was absolutely no map that I
could find that I could trust for the site of Carthage or Alexandria.
There were no "N. & Q." when I found myself at a stand-still; but I
asked all the friends about me, and I verily believe that to the
majority of those I spoke to it appeared an unreasonable thing for any
man to expect a map of the regions I wanted described. There seemed a
kind of feeling that when a man had got a map of Caffraria and Egypt,
and perhaps knew where Algiers _might_ be, he knew quite as much about
Africa as he ought. Can any of your correspondents now help me? Is there
no authentic _French_ map of at least some portion of the coast; or is
there any map in existence among ourselves that is not palpably a "fancy
portrait?"

    AJAX.

_Muggleton_ (Vol. v., p. 80.).--The Muggletonian sect probably still
exists. I was surprised at finding a shop for the sale of its
publications immediately within St. John's Gate, Clerkenwell, about five
years ago. Perhaps R.S. may think it worth while to look whether the
same trade be still carried on there.

    J. C. R.

_Passage in Hamlet_ (Vol. v., p. 169.).--I have just read A. E. B.'s
Notes on Shakspeare, No. II. His long criticism, ending in his own
suggestion of a new reading of the passage in _Hamlet_, does not
convince me that he has found the true reading yet. I suggest the
following:

                      "The dram of base
      Doth all the noble substance often _dull_,
      To his own scandal."

This reading of mine only makes it necessary to substitute the letters
_n_ and _ll_, for _a_ and _o_, in the quarto of 1605.

_Dull_ is a favourite word of Shakspeare's; and surely it makes at least
as good sense as any of the other readings. It is questionable whether
the lines are Shakspeare's; for the whole passage, from "This
heavy-headed revel," to "To his own scandal," is omitted in the first
and second folios, and also in the first known quarto of "1603."

To prove how easy it is for printers, or copiers from original
manuscripts of authors, to make mistakes, I will call your attention to
a serious blunder in the _first edition_ of Ben Jonson's verses
addressed to the Earl of Somerset, which are in the _Athenæum_ of Feb.
21st. The twenty-first and twenty-second lines are thus printed:

      "So in theyr number may you neuer see
      Mortality, till you a _mortall_ be."

Ben wrote "_immortall_."

    H. F.

_Theoloneum_ (Vol. v., p. 105.).--Theoloneum is a toll, _i.e._ the
payment made in markets and fairs for goods bought and sold. It was the
property of the lord to whom the fair or market belonged by patent from
the crown.

Henry III., by letters patent, dated at Windsor 15th May, in the
thirty-first year of his reign, grants to the abbot, &c. of Fecamp, the
manors at Cheltenham and Slaughter, &c. &c. &c. in exchange for the
villes of Winchelsea and Rye, which had been granted to the said abbot,
&c. by Edward the Confessor; to hold them--

  "adeo libera et quieta sicut antea tenuerunt Winchelsee et la Rye
  ratione donationis eis facte a felicis memorie sancto Adwardo, et
  concessionum ac confirmationum postmodum abitarum a Willelmo et
  Henrico Regibus Anglie de terra de Staniges cum omnibus apendiciis
  suis. Inter que reputabantur Winchelsee et la Rye. In cujus regis
  Willelmi carta continebantur hujusmodi libertates; videlicet, quod
  predicti abbas et monachi Phiscanenses habeant terram de Staniges,
  cum omnibus omnino apendiciis suis et cum omnibus legibus,
  libertatibus, liberis consuetudinibus quietanciis placitis,
  querelis, et causis que sunt vel fore possunt, absque ulla
  inquietudine et diminutione cujuslibet secularis vel judiciaria
  potestatis sicut res ad Phiscum dominicum pertinentes et quod
  predicta terra cum omnibus apendiciis suis libera sit et quieta ab
  omni consuetudine terrene servitutis et ab omni dominacione et
  subjeccione Baronum et principum et omnium aliorum. Et quod
  prefati abbas et Monachi Phiscanenses et eorum ministri habeant
  omnem regiam libertatem et consuetudinem et omnem justiciam suam
  de omnibus rebus et negociis que in terra sua evenient vel
  poterunt evenire, nec aliquis nisi per eos se inde intromittat.
  Quia hoc totum regale beneficium est et ab omni servitute quietum.
  Et quod si aliquis quicquam contra hujusmodi concessionem
  presumat, ad phiscum dominicum coactus auri libras centum
  persolvat."

I have ventured to subjoin this recital from the charter of William,
thinking that it may be acceptable to your querist, as fully explanatory
of the transaction to which his question refers.

    LAMBERT A. LARKING.

_Donkey_ (Vol. v., pp. 78. 165.).--In Chaucer's _Canterbury Tales_, v.
16954., we have--

      "Ther gan our hoste to jape and to play,
      And sayde: sires what? _Dun_ is in the mire."

There is also an old proverbial simile:

      "As dull as _Dun_ in the mire."

It is supposed that _Dun_ was a nickname applied to the ass from his
colour, in the same way as _Burnell_, in the _Chester Whitsun Playes_,
MS. Harl. 2013., and _Russell_ applied to the fox, _Canterbury Tales_,
v. 15340.

As to the termination _key_, it is probably (as in _monkey_, _jockey_,
which are the only words of similar formation which I can call to mind
at present) the same as _kin_, which has the force of a diminutive in
words like _lambkin_, _mannikin_, &c.

    JUVENIS.

_Sir Samuel Garth_ (Vol. v., p. 151.).--I believe it will be found
difficult to find the place of this celebrated physician's birth. In the
fourth volume of Mr. Surtees' _History of the County of Durham_, pp. 26,
27., there is an interesting account of him, to which is added a
pedigree of his family. Surtees, in a note, says:

  "There is no trace of his having ever revisited the north, and I
  have in vain endeavoured to glean anything of correspondence, or
  of traditional anecdote."

    FRA. MEWBURN.

  Darlington.

_Princes of Wales and Earls of Chester, &c.: Mr. Bush's Collection_
(Vol. v., p. 178.).--I suspect Mr. Bush's proposed collection was never
published. In an old MS. account of the Fellows of King's, I find the
following extract. I copy it as it stands:

  "1718.

  "Cha. Bush, of Harmondsworth, Middx. Res on being denied his
  Degree of A. B. in College from Party.... A Clk. of the Record
  Off. in the Tower, 1725. April 27, 1726, he published _proposals
  for printing by Subsr_. A lott of Charters and Letters Patent, and
  other Instruments concerning the Creation and Investiture of the
  eldest sons of the K's of Engl. as Princes of Wales, D. of
  Cornwall & E. of Chester & Flint, together with several Extracts
  out of the Parl. Rolls relating to the Honor, Dignity, & Estate of
  the P. of Wales, from the time of Edward first, P. of Wales
  (afterwards K. E. 2) to the time of E. 4. inclusive, faithfully
  collated from the Records of the Tower by C. B. one of the Clks.
  of the Record Off. in the T. & late Fell. of K. C. C.

  "He was taken into the Ordnance Office to assist in methodising
  the Papers belonging to it, and was after Sec. to the Board of
  Ordnance."

It would seem Mr. Bush's proposals did not meet with a favourable
reception, or perhaps his removal to an important government office
prevented his fulfilling his intentions. It is to be hoped he returned
his subscriptions (if any).

    J. H. L.

_Litera scripta manet_ (Vol. v., p. 200.).--The following extract, if
not complete answer to the query on _Litera scripta manet_, is a curious
instance of the early use of that maxim, and I transcribe it with
pleasure as a specimen of one of the best informed and most interesting
of our medieval prose writers. I rely, as to orthography and
punctuation, on Joseph Ames:

  "Considering that wordes ben perisshyng, wayne, and forgateful,
  and wrytynes duelle and abide permanent, as I rede, _Vox audita
  perit, litera scripta manet_. Thise thinges have caused that the
  faites and deeds of auncient men ben sette by declaracion in fair
  and aourned volumes, to thende that science and artes, lerned and
  founden, of thinges passed might be had in perpetuel memorye and
  remembraunce," &c.

  "William Caxton.

  "Westmestre by London, 1481.

    BOLTON CORNEY.




Miscellaneous.


NOTES ON BOOKS, ETC.

_The Athenæum_ of Saturday the 21st February announces that Sir F.
Madden has secured for the British Museum the celebrated "Bedford
Missal," and several other beautiful MSS., by the wise expenditure of
three thousand pounds. The other MSS., not described by _The Athenæum_,
are, we believe, the _Breviary of Isabella of Spain_, presented to her
by Francisco de Rojas in 1497, on the occasion of the double marriage of
her children, Don Juan and Doña Juana, to Margaret of Austria and Philip
the Fair, which sold at Mr. Hurd's sale in 1832 for 520_l._; the _Hours
of Juana of Castile_, wife of Philip the Fair, formerly in Hanrott's
library; the _Hours of Francis I._, which sold in Sir Mark Masterman
Sykes's sale, 1824, for 163_l._ 16_s._; the _Hours of François
d'Inteville_, Bishop of Auxerre, executed in 1525, formerly in
Beckford's collection; another volume of _Hours_ of the sixteenth
century, and a fine copy, in two large vols. folio, of the French
translation of Petrus Comestor's _Historia Scholastica_, by Guiart des
Molins, completed in 1294. While we agree with our contemporary in our
approval of this purchase, we cannot help adding to that approval a hope
that neither the trustees nor the treasury will make this expenditure an
excuse for not enabling the keeper of the MSS. to make extensive
purchases at the sales of valuable historical collections which are
expected to take place in the course of the present year.

At a general meeting of the Percy Society held last Thursday week, the
dissolution of the Society was determined on; and the meeting came to
the very proper resolution of not selling the stock of books in hand,
which would have had the effect of depreciating the market-value of the
Society's publications, but of distributing them among the existing
members. It is proposed, we believe, to form a new Society on a somewhat
similar plan; but which is to have for its object the reprinting,
without abridgment or omission, of such rare but well chosen tracts by
Greene, Nash Breton, Taylor the Water Poet, &c. as afford valuable
illustration of manners, or are interesting in any other point of view.

We have received from Messrs. Rivington a new volume containing _Eight
Essays on Various Subjects_, by the Rev. S. R. Maitland, D.D. The pages
of "N. & Q." have been so frequently enriched by contributions from the
able pen of the writer of these Essays, and he has in the work in
question spoken so kindly of this journal, that we feel it will be more
respectful to one who does not need our praise--which might under these
circumstances be attributed to interested motives--if we limit our
notice of the subject of the volume to an enumeration of the titles of
the essays. They are as follows:--I. _On the Mystical Interpretation of
Scripture_; II. _Sacred Art_--No. 1. _Music_; III. _Sacred Art_--No. 2.
_Painting_; IV. _Matter of Fact_; V. _The Fulness of the Gentiles_; VI.
_The Waldenses and Albigenses_; VII. _Perrin's History of the Vaudois_;
VIII. _The Lollards_. When we add that to these are appended the
following notes:--A. _Cowper's Nightcap_; B. _Vauxhall_; C. _The School
of Declamation_; D. _On Political Prophecies_; E. _The "Mirabilis Liber"
and "Petrus de Bardis"_; F. _Extracts from Lollard Prophecies_: we think
we have shown all who know the learning, honesty of purpose, strong
common sense, and racy humour of the Essayist, that the book is one to
be looked after, and to be looked at.


BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES

WANTED TO PURCHASE.

BELL'S FUGITIVE POETRY COLLECTION. Vols. X. and XVI. 12mo. 1790.

THE CRITIC, London Literary Journal. First 6 Nos. for 1851.

VOLTAIRE, OEUVRES COMPLETES DE. Aux Deux-Ponts. Chez Sanson et
Compagnie. Vols. I. & II. 1791-2.

SCOTT'S CONTINUATION OF MILNER'S CHURCH HISTORY. Part II. of Vol. II.
8vo.

SPECTATOR. No. 1223. Dec. 6, 1851.

EDWIN AND EMMA. Taylor, 1776.

ANNUAL REGISTER, from 1816 inclusive to the present time.

MEDICO-CHIRURGICAL TRANSACTIONS. From Part II. of Vol. XI. March, 1819;
and also from Vol. XXX.

THE CODE MATRIMONIAL. Paris, 1770.

PRO MATRIMONIO PRINCIPIS CUM DEFUNCTÆ UXORIS SORORE CONTRACTO RESPONSUM
JURIS, COLLEGII JURISCONSULTORUM IN ACADEMIÂ RINTELENSI. Published about
1655.

GREGORY'S (DR.) SECOND MEMORIAL TO THE MANAGERS OF THE ROYAL INFIRMARY,
EDINBURGH.

HERON'S (SIR ROBERT) NOTES. First Edition. Privately printed.

COBBETT'S STATE TRIALS. 8vo. Vol. VIII. 1810.

ISR. CLAUDERI DISPUTATIO DE SALE SUB PRÆSIDIO SAGITTARII. Jenæ, 1650.

CRESCENT AND THE CROSS. Vol. I. Third Edition.

MACKINNON'S HISTORY OF CIVILISATION. Vol. II. 1846.

LITE'S DODOENS' HERBAL. First Edition. (An imperfect copy to complete
another.)

TURNER'S A BOOKE OF THE NATURES OF THE BATHES IN ENGLAND. 1568. (An
imperfect copy to complete another.)

A MOST EXCELLENT AND PERFECTE CORNISH APOTHECARY. 1561. (An imperfect
copy to complete another.)

FIELDING'S WORKS. 14 Vols. 1808. Vol. XI. [Being 2nd of Amelia.]

SHADWELL. Vols. II. and IV. 1720.

ARCHBISHOP LEIGHTON. Vol. IV. 1819.

Baronetage. Vol. I. 1720. Ditto. Vols. I. and II. 1727.

CHAMBERLAYNE'S PHARONNIDA. (Reprint.) Vols. I. and II. 1820.

  [Star symbol] Letters, stating particulars and lowest price,
  _carriage free_, to be sent to MR. BELL, Publisher of "NOTES AND
  QUERIES," 186. Fleet Street.


Notices to Correspondents.

_We regret that we have been compelled at the last moment to postpone_
MR. RAWLINSON'S _paper on_ Provincial Words _until next week._

J. W. B. _The autobiography of Richard Jones the comedian has not, we
believe, been published._

J. N. C. _The Augmentation Office is a part of the Record Office at
Carlton Ride._

G. H. K. _Does our correspondent wish his Query respecting_ William Tell
_in our_ 3rd Vol. p. 187. _repeated_?

R. J. (Shrewsbury) _is referred to Carlyle's_ Sartor Resartus _for a
reply to his Query._

REPLIES RECEIVED.--_Cabal--Roaring Meg--Cheap Maps--Nuremburg
Token--Gospel Oaks--Broad Arrow--Provincial Names--Modern Greek Names of
Places--Knarres--Boiling to Death--Passage in Hamlet--Age of
Trees--Ballad of Lord Delamere--Beocherie--Sir A. Cumming and the
Cherokees--Behemoth--"'Twas whisper'd in Heaven"--John of
Padua--Donkey--Ambassadors addressed as Peers._

_Full price will be given for clean copies of_ No. 19. _upon application
to our Publisher._

_Neat Cases for holding the Numbers of_ "N. & Q." _until the completion
of each Volume are now ready, price_ 1_s._ 6_d., and may be had by order
of all booksellers and newsmen._

_Copies of our_ Prospectus, _according to the suggestion of_ T. E. H.,
_will be forwarded to any correspondent willing to assist us by
circulating them._

VOLUME THE FOURTH OF NOTES AND QUERIES, _with very copious_ INDEX, _is
now ready, price_ 9_s._ 6_d. cloth boards._

"NOTES AND QUERIES" _is published at noon on Friday, so that the Country
Booksellers may receive Copies in that night's parcels, and deliver them
to their Subscribers on the Saturday._




LEBAHN'S WORKS.

  Fourth Stereotype Edition. price 8_s._; with Key, 10_s._ 6_d._

  GERMAN in ONE VOLUME. Containing a Grammar; Exercises; Undine, a
  Tale by Fouqué, with Notes; and a Vocabulary of 4,500 Words
  synonymous in German and English.


  Price 6_s._

  PRACTICE IN GERMAN. Adapted for Self-Instruction; containing the
  First Three Chapters of Undine, with a literal Interlinear
  Translation, and copious Notes.


  Price 6_s._ 6_d._

  THE SELF-INSTRUCTOR in GERMAN. Containing--I. "Der Muthwillige"
  (the Wag), a Comedy, in Five Acts, by KOTZEBUE. II. "Der Neffe als
  Onkel," a Comedy, in Three Acts, by SCHILLER. With a Vocabulary
  and Notes.


  Price 3_s._ 6_d._

  A FIRST GERMAN READING-BOOK. Containing--"Das Täubchen" (the
  Dove), a Tale for the Young, by CH. SCHMID. With an Introductory
  Grammar and a Vocabulary, containing every Word occurring in the
  Text.


  Price 3_s._ 6_d._

  EICHENFELS, AND DIALOGUES; In What Manner Henry came to the
  Knowledge of God: a Tale, by CH. SCHMID. With a complete
  Vocabulary, and Dialogues, containing the ordinary Conversational
  Phrases.


  Price 3_s._ 6_d._

  PETER SCHLEMIHL; or, the SHADOWLESS MAN. By CHAMISSO. With a
  Vocabulary and Copious Notes.


  Price 3_s._ 6_d._

  EGMONT: a Tragedy, in Five Acts. by GOETHE. With a complete
  Vocabulary.


  Price 3_s._ 6_d._

  UNDINE: a Tale, by FOUQUÉ. With Notes.


  Price 3_s._ 6_d._

  WILHELM TELL: a Drama, in Five Acts, by SCHILLER. With a complete
  Vocabulary.


  About 250 commendatory Notices on the above Works have appeared.

  Sold by all Booksellers; and at Mr. LEBAHN'S Class Rooms, 1.
  Annett's Crescent, Lower Road, Islington.

  MR. FALCK-LEBAHN receives Classes and Private Pupils at 1.
  Annett's Crescent, Islington; 12. Norland Square, Notting Hill;
  and attends Students at their own Residences.


Just published, fcap. 8vo., cloth, price 6_s._,

  SERMONS, on the Doctrines and Means of Grace, and on the Seven
  Words from the Cross. By GEORGE TREVOR, M.A., Canon of York.

  London: GEORGE BELL, 186. Fleet Street.


CHEAP TEA and CHEAP COFFEE.--Although we sell black tea at 3_s._ per lb.
and good black tea at 3_s._ 4_d._, strong coffee at 10_d._, and fine
coffee at a 1_s._ per lb., we still say to all who study economy, that
the best is the cheapest, particularly when the best can be obtained
from us at the following prices:--The best congou tea, 3_s._ 8_d._ per
lb.; the best souchong tea, 4_s._ 4_d._; the best gunpowder tea, 5_s._
8_d._ per lb.; the best old mocha coffee, 1_s._ 4_d._ per lb.; the best
West India coffee, 1_s._ 4_d._ per lb. The fine, true, ripe, rich, rare
souchong tea is now only 4_s._ per lb.; and the pure, rich, rare
gunpowder, 5_s._ per lb. Tea or coffee to the value of 40_s._ sent
carriage free to any part of England, by PHILLIPS and Co., Tea
merchants, 8. King William Street, City.


PROVIDENT LIFE OFFICE, 50. REGENT STREET.

  CITY BRANCH: 2. ROYAL EXCHANGE BUILDINGS.

  Established 1806.

      Policy Holders' Capital, 1,192,818_l._
      Annual Income, 150,000_l._
      Bonuses Declared, 743,000_l._
      Claims paid since the Establishment
          of the Office, 2,001,450_l._

  _President._

  The Right Honourable EARL GREY.

  _Directors._

      The Rev. James Sherman, _Chairman_.
      H. Blencowe Churchill, Esq., _Dep.-Chairman_.
      Henry B. Alexander, Esq.
      George Dacre, Esq.
      William Judd, Esq.
      Sir Richard D. King, Bart.
      The Hon. Arthur Kinnaird
      Thomas Maugham, Esq.
      William Ostler, Esq.
      Apsley Pellatt, Esq.
      George Round, Esq.
      Frederick Squire, Esq.
      William Henry Stone, Esq.
      Capt. William John Williams.
      J. A. Beaumont, Esq., _Managing Director_.

  _Physician_--John Maclean. M.D. F.S.S., 29 Upper Montague Street,
  Montague Square.

  NINETEEN-TWENTIETHS OF THE PROFITS ARE DIVIDED AMONG THE INSURED.

  Examples of the Extinction of Premiums by the Surrender of
  Bonuses.

      --------+----------+---------------------+---------------
              ¦          ¦                     ¦ Bonuses added
       Date   ¦   Sum    ¦       Original      ¦ subsequently,
        of    ¦ Insured. ¦       Premium.      ¦ to be further
      Policy. ¦          ¦                     ¦   increased
              ¦          ¦                     ¦   annually.
      --------+----------+---------------------+---------------
       1806   ¦  2500    ¦ £79  10  10 Exting. ¦ £1222   2   8
       1811   ¦  1000    ¦  33  19   2  Ditto  ¦   231  17   0
       1818   ¦  1000    ¦  34  16  10  Ditto  ¦   114  18  10
      --------+----------+---------------------+---------------

  Examples of Bonuses added to other Policies.

      --------+-------+----------+-------------+---------------
              ¦       ¦          ¦             ¦   Total with
      Policy  ¦ Date. ¦    Sum   ¦  Bonuses    ¦   Additions
        No.   ¦       ¦  Insured.¦   added.    ¦  to be further
              ¦       ¦          ¦             ¦   increased.
      --------+-------+----------+-------------+----------------
        521   ¦ 1807  ¦   £900   ¦  £982 12  1 ¦ £1882   12   1
       1174   ¦ 1810  ¦   1200   ¦  1160  5  6 ¦  2360    5   6
       3392   ¦ 1820  ¦   5000   ¦  3558 17  8 ¦  3558   17   8
      --------+-------+----------+-------------+----------------

  Prospectuses and full particulars may be obtained upon application
  to the Agents of the Office, in all the principal Towns of the
  United Kingdom, at the City Branch, and at the Head Office, No.
  50. Regent Street.


LONDON LIBRARY, 12. St. James's Square

  Patron: His Royal Highness Prince ALBERT

  This Institution now offers to its members a collection of 60,000
  volumes, to which additions are constantly making, both in English
  and foreign literature. A reading room is also open for the use of
  the members, supplied with the best English and foreign
  periodicals.

  Terms of admission--entrance fee. 6_l._; annual subscription,
  2_l._; or entrance fee and life subscription, 26_l._

  By order of the Committee:

      J. G. COCHRANE,
      Secretary and Librarian.

  September, 1851.


Preparing for publication, in Numbers at 3_s._ each (to Subscribers
2_s._ 6_d._).

  REMAINS OF PAGAN SAXONDOM, principally from Tumuli in England.
  Drawn from the Originals. Described and illustrated by JOHN YONGE
  AKERMAN, Fellow and Secretary of the Society of Antiquaries of
  London. The Engravings or Lithographs will, if possible, in every
  case, be of the actual size of the objects represented. The First
  Number will appear as soon as the names of Two Hundred Subscribers
  have been received.

  Subscribers are requested to forward their Names to the care of

  MR. JOHN RUSSELL SMITH, 36. Soho Square, London.


WESTERN LIFE ASSURANCE AND ANNUITY SOCIETY, 3. PARLIAMENT STREET,
LONDON.

  Founded A.D. 1842.

  _Directors._

      H. Edgeworth Bicknell, Esq.
      William Cabell, Esq.
      T. Somers Cocks, Jun. Esq. M.P.
      G. Henry Drew, Esq.
      William Evans, Esq.
      William Freeman, Esq.
      F. Fuller, Esq.
      J. Henry Goodhart, Esq.
      T. Grissell, Esq.
      James Hunt, Esq.
      J. Arscott Lethbridge, Esq.
      E. Lucas, Esq.
      James Lys Seager, Esq.
      J. Basley White, Esq.
      Joseph Carter Wood, Esq.

  _Trustees._

      W. Whateley, Esq., Q.C.
      L. C. Humfrey, Esq., Q.C.
      George Drew, Esq.

  _Consulting Counsel._--Sir Wm. P. Wood, M.P. Solicitor-General.

  _Physician._--William Rich. Basham, M.D.

  _Bankers._--Messrs. Cocks, Biddulph, and Co., Charing Cross.

  VALUABLE PRIVILEGE.

  POLICIES effected in this Office do not become void through
  temporary difficulty in paying a Premium, as permission is given
  upon application to suspend the payment at interest, according to
  the conditions detailed in the Prospectus.

  Specimens of Rates of Premium for Assuring 100_l._ with a Share in
  three-fourths of the Profits:--

      Age          £ _s._  _d._
       17          1  14    4
       22          1  18    8
       27          2   4    5
       32          2  10    8
       37          2  18    6
       42          3   8    2

  ARTHUR SCRATCHLEY, M.A., F.R.A.S., Actuary.

  Now ready, price 10_s._ 6_d._, Second Edition, with material
  additions, INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT and EMIGRATION; being a TREATISE
  on BENEFIT BUILDING SOCIETIES, and on the General Principles of
  Land Investment, exemplified in the Cases of Freehold Land
  Societies, Building Companies, &c. With a Mathematical Appendix on
  Compound Interest and Life Assurance. By ARTHUR SCRATCHLEY, M.A.,
  Actuary to the Western Life Assurance Society, 3. Parliament
  Street, London.


SPECIAL NOTICE TO INTENDING ASSURERS.

  INTENDING Life Assurers are respectfully invited to compare the
  principles, rates, and whole provisions of the SCOTTISH PROVIDENT
  INSTITUTION with those of any existing company.

  In this Society the whole profits are divisible among the
  policy-holders, who are at the same time exempt from personal
  liability. It claims superiority, however, over other mutual
  offices in the following particulars.

  1. Premiums at early and middle ages about a fourth lower. See
  specimens below.(*)

  2. A more accurate adjustment of the rates of premium to the
  several ages.

  3. A principle in the division of the surplus more safe,
  equitable, and favourable to good lives.

  4. Exemption from entry money.

      (*) Annual Premiums for 100_l._, with Whole
      Profits.
      -------+--------+-------+--------+--------+-------+-------+-------
      Age 20 ¦   25   ¦  30   ¦   35   ¦   40   ¦   45  ¦  50   ¦  55
      -------+--------+-------+--------+--------+-------+-------+-------
      1 15 8 ¦ 1 18 0 ¦ 2 1 6 ¦ 2 6 10 ¦ 2 14 9 ¦ 3 4 9 ¦ 4 1 7 ¦ 5 1 11
      -------+--------+-------+--------+--------+-------+-------+-------

      (*) Annual Premiums for 100_l._, with Whole
      Profits, payable for 21 years only.
      -------+--------+--------+--------+-------+--------+------
      Age 20 ¦   25   ¦   30   ¦   35   ¦   40  ¦   45   ¦  50
      -------+--------+--------+--------+-------+--------+------
      2 7 0  ¦ 2 10 8 ¦ 2 14 6 ¦ 2 19 8 ¦ 3 6 4 ¦ 3 14 9 ¦ 4 7 2
      -------+--------+--------+--------+-------+--------+------

  All policies indisputable unless obtained by fraud.

  Forms of proposal, prospectus containing full tables, copies of
  the Twelfth Annual Report, and every information, will be
  forwarded (gratis) on application at the London Office, 12.
  Moorgate Street.

  GEORGE GRANT, Agent for London.


NEW VOLUME BY THE REV. DR. MAITLAND.

  In small 8vo. price 5_s._

  EIGHT ESSAYS ON VARIOUS SUBJECTS. By the Rev. S. R. MAITLAND,
  D.D., F.R.S., and F.S.A.

  RIVINGTONS, St. Paul's Church Yard, and Waterloo Place;

  Of whom may be had, by the same Author,

  1. ERUVIN; or MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS on Subjects connected with the
  NATURE, HISTORY, and DESTINY OF MAN. Second Edition, 5_s._ 6_d._

  2. ESSAYS ON THE REFORMATION IN ENGLAND. 15_s._

  3. ESSAYS ON THE DARK AGES. Second Edition. 12_s._


CARDINAL WOLSEY.

  In small 4to. (with Portrait), price 12_s._

  THE LIFE Of CARDINAL WOLSEY. By GEORGE CAVENDISH, his Gentlemen
  Usher. New Edition, reprinted from Dr. Wordsworth's
  "Ecclesiastical Biography," with the addition of numerous
  Historical and Biographical Notes.

  RIVINGTONS, St. Paul's Church Yard, and Waterloo Place.


NEW NUMBER OF MR. ARNOLD'S THEOLOGICAL CRITIC.

  Now ready, price 4_s._, Part I. of Vol. II. of

  The THEOLOGICAL CRITIC; a Quarterly Journal. Edited by the Rev.
  THOMAS KERCHEVER ARNOLD. M.A., Rector of Lyndon, and late Fellow
  of Trinity College, Cambridge. This Journal embraces Theology in
  its widest acceptation, and several articles of each number are
  devoted to Biblical Criticism.

  Contents: 1. Greg's Creed of Christendom; 2. Henderson's
  Translation of Isaiah; 3. Gottschalk and the Predestinarian
  Controversy of the Ninth Century; 4. Romans ix. x. xi.; 5.
  Evidence of the Genuineness of the Gospels; 6. Newman's Lectures,
  addressed to the Brothers of the Oratory; 7. Cycles of Egyptian
  Chronology; 8. 1 Tim. iv. 7-10. Notices of Books received.
  Contents of the Theological Journals.

  RIVINGTONS, St. Paul's Church Yard, and Waterloo Place.


Now ready, the First Volume, price 16_s._ 6_d._

  THE NEW GENERAL BIOGRAPHICAL DICTIONARY.

  In 12 Vols. 8vo., elegantly printed in double columns,

  A NEW GENERAL BIOGRAPHICAL DICTIONARY. Projected and partly
  arranged by the late Rev. HUGH JAMES ROSE, B.D., Principal of
  King's College, London.

  This work is intended to supply a deficiency in our literature
  which has existed since the completion of Mr. Chalmers's
  Biographical Dictionary, in 1817. That publication, now nearly
  obsolete, contained less than 9000 names, while the present Work
  contains more than 20,000. It has been most carefully edited and
  compiled by experienced writers, who have availed themselves of
  the vast body of materials which domestic and foreign literature
  has of late years supplied. The great variety and extensive range
  of its contents, far exceeding those of any other modern
  biographical publication in our language, must render it a very
  important addition to every public and private Library, both as a
  work of reference, and a storehouse of information and amusement
  for all classes of readers.

  London: B. FELLOWES; RIVINGTONS; E. HODGSON; J. M. RICHARDSON; J.
  BAIN; G. GREENLAND; CAPES & Co.; T. BOSWORTH; H. WASHBOURNE; H. G.
  BOHN; and G. WILLIS. Also for J. DEIGHTON, Cambridge; and J. H.
  PARKER, Oxford.


THE GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE for MARCH contains, among others, the following
articles: 1. Lectures on the History of France, by Sir James Stephen. 2.
Christian Iconography, by J. G. Waller: Symbols of the Eagle, the Lion,
and the Bull. 3. Letters of Mrs. Piozzi to Mr. Cadell. 4. Magdalen
College Visitation: with Original Papers, by Hepworth Dixon. 5. The Life
and Letters of Niebuhr. 6. Lord Mahon's History of England. The
Grenville Administration and the Letters of Junius. 7. Worsaae's Danes
and Norwegians in England, Scotland, and Ireland. 8. Correspondence of
Sylvanus Urban: On the Corruption of the Judges in the Thirteenth
Century. The Early Use of Paper in England. Roman Inscriptions in
Britain. St. Olave's Church, Chichester. With Notes of the Month,
Historical Reviews, Historical Chronicle, and Obituary. Price 2_s._
6_d._

  NICHOLS & SON, 25. Parliament Street.


GRATUITOUS AND POST FREE.

  Now ready.

  THE SEVENTY-EIGHTH CATALOGUE of Cheap Miscellaneous Second-hand
  English and Foreign Books, issued by W. S. LINCOLN, Cheltenham
  House, Westminster Road, London. It will be forwarded Gratis and
  Post free to any gentleman in town or country who applies for it.


Just published,

  AMERICA and the AMERICAN CHURCH. By the Rev. HENRY CASWALL, M.A.,
  Vicar of Figheldean, Wiltshire, Author of "The City of the
  Mormons," &c., and during Fourteen Years in the Service of the
  Church in the United States and Canada. Second Edition, post 8vo.,
  cloth, price 7_s._

  In this edition the personal narrative of the Author is
  considerably enlarged, and brought down to the year 1842--the
  History of the American Church continued to the present time--the
  method of Synodical Action in America minutely described, and the
  advantages and defects of the system impartially stated.

  "Full of important information as to the actual condition of the
  American and our own North American Churches, and contains most
  valuable statistics concerning both, completed to the end of the
  year 1851."--_Colonial Church Chronicle._

  London: J. & C. MOZLEY, 6. Paternoster Row.


Foolscap 8vo., price 5_s._

  LENT READINGS FROM THE FATHERS. Selected from "The Library of the
  Fathers."


  In the Press, foolscap 8vo.

  THE MAN OF SORROWS. The Mental Sufferings of our Lord and Saviour
  Jesus Christ during His Passion, considered in Five Discourses. By
  the Ven. WALTER B. MANT, M.A., Archdeacon of Down, and Rector of
  Hillsborough.


  16mo., price 1_s._

  SOPHOCLIS AJAX cum Notulis Anglice Scriptis. In Usum Scholarum.


  Foolscap 8vo., price 1_s._ 6_d._

  TWO LECTURES ON THE HOLY CATHOLIC CHURCH, with reference to the
  Position of different Sects.


  12mo., price 6_s._ in boards, or 7_s._ bound.

  THE OXFORD UNIVERSITY CALENDAR, 1852.


  8vo., price 2_s._

  THE PRESERVATION AND RESTORATION OF ANCIENT MONUMENTS: A Paper
  read before the Archæological Institute at Bristol, July 29, 1851.
  With Notes. By EDWARD A. FREEMAN, M.A., late Fellow of Trinity
  College, Oxford; Local Secretary of the Institute for
  Gloucestershire.

  Oxford: JOHN HENRY PARKER; and 377. Strand, London.


THE TIMES NEWSPAPER to be Disposed Of (bound in boards), from 1813 to
1846, and from 1846 to 1851 unbound. For Particulars, apply to Mr. E. J.
RICHARDSON, 16. Giltspur Street, Snow Hill.


SAINT PANCRAS OLD CHURCH.--Facsimiles of this Church from a drawing done
by Lord Bewling, 1587. Do. do. by Captain J. Eyre, showing the
Parliament's fortifications at the Brill, 1443. Do. do. by Wm. Townley,
showing his brother's gravestone, who suffered on Kennington Common in
the Pretender's cause in '45, 1750--three interesting Topographical
prints, 3_s._ each, at THOMPSON'S, 397. Oxford Street. Early risers are
respectfully informed the shop opens at Daybreak. Collections of Prints
bought.




Printed by Thomas Clark Shaw, of No. 8. New Street Square, at No. 5. New
Street Square, in the Parish of St. Bride, in the City of London; and
published by George Bell, of No. 186. Fleet Street, in the Parish of St.
Dunstan in the West, in the City of London, Publisher, at No. 186. Fleet
Street aforesaid.--Saturday, March 6, 1852.




      [Transcriber's Note: List of volumes and content pages in "Notes
      and Queries", Vol. I.-V.]

      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Notes and Queries Vol. I.                                   |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol., No.     | Date, Year        | Pages     | PG # xxxxx  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No.  1 | November  3, 1849 |   1 -  17 | PG #  8603  |
      | Vol. I No.  2 | November 10, 1849 |  18 -  32 | PG # 11265  |
      | Vol. I No.  3 | November 17, 1849 |  33 -  46 | PG # 11577  |
      | Vol. I No.  4 | November 24, 1849 |  49 -  63 | PG # 13513  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No.  5 | December  1, 1849 |  65 -  80 | PG # 11636  |
      | Vol. I No.  6 | December  8, 1849 |  81 -  95 | PG # 13550  |
      | Vol. I No.  7 | December 15, 1849 |  97 - 112 | PG # 11651  |
      | Vol. I No.  8 | December 22, 1849 | 113 - 128 | PG # 11652  |
      | Vol. I No.  9 | December 29, 1849 | 130 - 144 | PG # 13521  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No. 10 | January   5, 1850 | 145 - 160 | PG #        |
      | Vol. I No. 11 | January  12, 1850 | 161 - 176 | PG # 11653  |
      | Vol. I No. 12 | January  19, 1850 | 177 - 192 | PG # 11575  |
      | Vol. I No. 13 | January  26, 1850 | 193 - 208 | PG # 11707  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No. 14 | February  2, 1850 | 209 - 224 | PG # 13558  |
      | Vol. I No. 15 | February  9, 1850 | 225 - 238 | PG # 11929  |
      | Vol. I No. 16 | February 16, 1850 | 241 - 256 | PG # 16193  |
      | Vol. I No. 17 | February 23, 1850 | 257 - 271 | PG # 12018  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No. 18 | March     2, 1850 | 273 - 288 | PG # 13544  |
      | Vol. I No. 19 | March     9, 1850 | 289 - 309 | PG # 13638  |
      | Vol. I No. 20 | March    16, 1850 | 313 - 328 | PG # 16409  |
      | Vol. I No. 21 | March    23, 1850 | 329 - 343 | PG # 11958  |
      | Vol. I No. 22 | March    30, 1850 | 345 - 359 | PG # 12198  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No. 23 | April     6, 1850 | 361 - 376 | PG # 12505  |
      | Vol. I No. 24 | April    13, 1850 | 377 - 392 | PG # 13925  |
      | Vol. I No. 25 | April    20, 1850 | 393 - 408 | PG # 13747  |
      | Vol. I No. 26 | April    27, 1850 | 409 - 423 | PG # 13822  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Vol. I No. 27 | May       4, 1850 | 425 - 447 | PG # 13712  |
      | Vol. I No. 28 | May      11, 1850 | 449 - 463 | PG # 13684  |
      | Vol. I No. 29 | May      18, 1850 | 465 - 479 | PG # 15197  |
      | Vol. I No. 30 | May      25, 1850 | 481 - 495 | PG # 13713  |
      +---------------+-------------------+-----------+-------------+
      | Notes and Queries Vol. II.                                  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol., No.      | Date, Year         | Pages   | PG # xxxxx  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 31 | June  1, 1850      |   1- 15 | PG # 12589  |
      | Vol. II No. 32 | June  8, 1850      |  17- 32 | PG # 15996  |
      | Vol. II No. 33 | June 15, 1850      |  33- 48 | PG # 26121  |
      | Vol. II No. 34 | June 22, 1850      |  49- 64 | PG # 22127  |
      | Vol. II No. 35 | June 29, 1850      |  65- 79 | PG # 22126  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 36 | July  6, 1850      |  81- 96 | PG # 13361  |
      | Vol. II No. 37 | July 13, 1850      |  97-112 | PG # 13729  |
      | Vol. II No. 38 | July 20, 1850      | 113-128 | PG # 13362  |
      | Vol. II No. 39 | July 27, 1850      | 129-143 | PG # 13736  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 40 | August  3, 1850    | 145-159 | PG # 13389  |
      | Vol. II No. 41 | August 10, 1850    | 161-176 | PG # 13393  |
      | Vol. II No. 42 | August 17, 1850    | 177-191 | PG # 13411  |
      | Vol. II No. 43 | August 24, 1850    | 193-207 | PG # 13406  |
      | Vol. II No. 44 | August 31, 1850    | 209-223 | PG # 13426  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 45 | September  7, 1850 | 225-240 | PG # 13427  |
      | Vol. II No. 46 | September 14, 1850 | 241-256 | PG # 13462  |
      | Vol. II No. 47 | September 21, 1850 | 257-272 | PG # 13936  |
      | Vol. II No. 48 | September 28, 1850 | 273-288 | PG # 13463  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 49 | October  5, 1850   | 289-304 | PG # 13480  |
      | Vol. II No. 50 | October 12, 1850   | 305-320 | PG # 13551  |
      | Vol. II No. 51 | October 19, 1850   | 321-351 | PG # 15232  |
      | Vol. II No. 52 | October 26, 1850   | 353-367 | PG # 22624  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 53 | November  2, 1850  | 369-383 | PG # 13540  |
      | Vol. II No. 54 | November  9, 1850  | 385-399 | PG # 22138  |
      | Vol. II No. 55 | November 16, 1850  | 401-415 | PG # 15216  |
      | Vol. II No. 56 | November 23, 1850  | 417-431 | PG # 15354  |
      | Vol. II No. 57 | November 30, 1850  | 433-454 | PG # 15405  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. II No. 58 | December  7, 1850  | 457-470 | PG # 21503  |
      | Vol. II No. 59 | December 14, 1850  | 473-486 | PG # 15427  |
      | Vol. II No. 60 | December 21, 1850  | 489-502 | PG # 24803  |
      | Vol. II No. 61 | December 28, 1850  | 505-524 | PG # 16404  |
      +----------------+--------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Notes and Queries Vol. III.                                 |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol., No.       | Date, Year        | Pages   | PG # xxxxx  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. III No. 62 | January  4, 1851  |   1- 15 | PG # 15638  |
      | Vol. III No. 63 | January 11, 1851  |  17- 31 | PG # 15639  |
      | Vol. III No. 64 | January 18, 1851  |  33- 47 | PG # 15640  |
      | Vol. III No. 65 | January 25, 1851  |  49- 78 | PG # 15641  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. III No. 66 | February  1, 1851 |  81- 95 | PG # 22339  |
      | Vol. III No. 67 | February  8, 1851 |  97-111 | PG # 22625  |
      | Vol. III No. 68 | February 15, 1851 | 113-127 | PG # 22639  |
      | Vol. III No. 69 | February 22, 1851 | 129-159 | PG # 23027  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. III No. 70 | March  1, 1851    | 161-174 | PG # 23204  |
      | Vol. III No. 71 | March  8, 1851    | 177-200 | PG # 23205  |
      | Vol. III No. 72 | March 15, 1851    | 201-215 | PG # 23212  |
      | Vol. III No. 73 | March 22, 1851    | 217-231 | PG # 23225  |
      | Vol. III No. 74 | March 29, 1851    | 233-255 | PG # 23282  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. III No. 75 | April  5, 1851    | 257-271 | PG # 23402  |
      | Vol. III No. 76 | April 12, 1851    | 273-294 | PG # 26896  |
      | Vol. III No. 77 | April 19, 1851    | 297-311 | PG # 26897  |
      | Vol. III No. 78 | April 26, 1851    | 313-342 | PG # 26898  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. III No. 79 | May  3, 1851      | 345-359 | PG # 26899  |
      | Vol. III No. 80 | May 10, 1851      | 361-382 | PG # 32495  |
      | Vol. III No. 81 | May 17, 1851      | 385-399 | PG # 29318  |
      | Vol. III No. 82 | May 24, 1851      | 401-415 | PG # 28311  |
      | Vol. III No. 83 | May 31, 1851      | 417-440 | PG # 36835  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Vol. III No. 84 | June  7, 1851     | 441-472 | PG # 37379  |
      | Vol. III No. 85 | June 14, 1851     | 473-488 | PG # 37403  |
      | Vol. III No. 86 | June 21, 1851     | 489-511 | PG # 37496  |
      | Vol. III No. 87 | June 28, 1851     | 513-528 | PG # 37516  |
      +-----------------+-------------------+---------+-------------+
      | Notes and Queries Vol. IV.                                  |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol., No.       | Date, Year         | Pages   | PG # xxxxx |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. IV No.  88 | July  5, 1851      |   1- 15 | PG # 37548 |
      | Vol. IV No.  89 | July 12, 1851      |  17- 31 | PG # 37568 |
      | Vol. IV No.  90 | July 19, 1851      |  33- 47 | PG # 37593 |
      | Vol. IV No.  91 | July 26, 1851      |  49- 79 | PG # 37778 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. IV No.  92 | August  2, 1851    |  81- 94 | PG # 38324 |
      | Vol. IV No.  93 | August  9, 1851    |  97-112 | PG # 38337 |
      | Vol. IV No.  94 | August 16, 1851    | 113-127 | PG # 38350 |
      | Vol. IV No.  95 | August 23, 1851    | 129-144 | PG # 38386 |
      | Vol. IV No.  96 | August 30, 1851    | 145-167 | PG # 38405 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. IV No.  97 | Sept.  6, 1851     | 169-183 | PG # 38433 |
      | Vol. IV No.  98 | Sept. 13, 1851     | 185-200 | PG # 38491 |
      | Vol. IV No.  99 | Sept. 20, 1851     | 201-216 | PG # 38574 |
      | Vol. IV No. 100 | Sept. 27, 1851     | 217-246 | PG # 38656 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. IV No. 101 | Oct.  4, 1851      | 249-264 | PG # 38701 |
      | Vol. IV No. 102 | Oct. 11, 1851      | 265-287 | PG # 38773 |
      | Vol. IV No. 103 | Oct. 18, 1851      | 289-303 | PG # 38864 |
      | Vol. IV No. 104 | Oct. 25, 1851      | 305-333 | PG # 38926 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. IV No. 105 | Nov.  1, 1851      | 337-358 | PG # 39076 |
      | Vol. IV No. 106 | Nov.  8, 1851      | 361-374 | PG # 39091 |
      | Vol. IV No. 107 | Nov. 15, 1851      | 377-396 | PG # 39135 |
      | Vol. IV No. 108 | Nov. 22, 1851      | 401-414 | PG # 39197 |
      | Vol. IV No. 109 | Nov. 29, 1851      | 417-430 | PG # 39233 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. IV No. 110 | Dec.  6, 1851      | 433-460 | PG # 39338 |
      | Vol. IV No. 111 | Dec. 13, 1851      | 465-478 | PG # 39393 |
      | Vol. IV No. 112 | Dec. 20, 1851      | 481-494 | PG # 39438 |
      | Vol. IV No. 113 | Dec. 27, 1851      | 497-510 | PG # 39503 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Notes and Queries Vol. V.                                   |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol., No.       | Date, Year         |  Pages  | PG # xxxxx |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. V  No. 114 | January  3, 1852   |   1- 18 | PG # 40171 |
      | Vol. V  No. 115 | January 10, 1852   |  25- 45 | PG # 40582 |
      | Vol. V  No. 116 | January 17, 1852   |  49- 70 | PG # 40642 |
      | Vol. V  No. 117 | January 24, 1852   |  73- 94 | PG # 40678 |
      | Vol. V  No. 118 | January 31, 1852   |  97-118 | PG # 40716 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol. V  No. 119 | February  7, 1852  | 121-142 | PG # 40742 |
      | Vol. V  No. 120 | February 14, 1852  | 145-167 | PG # 40743 |
      | Vol. V  No. 121 | February 21, 1852  | 170-191 | PG # 40773 |
      | Vol. V  No. 122 | February 28, 1852  | 193-215 | PG # 40779 |
      +-----------------+--------------------+---------+------------+
      | Vol I. Index. [Nov. 1849-May 1850]             | PG # 13536 |
      | INDEX TO THE SECOND VOLUME. MAY-DEC., 1850     | PG # 13571 |
      | INDEX TO THE THIRD VOLUME. JAN.-JUNE, 1851     | PG # 26770 |
      | INDEX TO THE FOURTH VOLUME. JULY-DEC., 1851    | PG # 40166 |
      +------------------------------------------------+------------+






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Notes and Queries, Vol. V, Number 123,
March 6, 1852, by Various

